The Organisers of the Higher Institution Football League (HiFL), PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing, have debunked reports of a court injunction to stop the 2018 HiFL finals scheduled to take place on Saturday, November 3rd at Agege stadium, Lagos. Speaking ahead of tomorrows final, Sola Fijabi, Director PACE Sports and Entertainment said they are yet to receive any notice of court injunction to stop the finals. “Our attention has been drawn to a press statement released in the national dailies by Shuaibu Gara-Gombe, CEO of Green White Green Centre Limited, alleging that an injunction has been granted by the Federal High Court, Ikoyi to stop the forthcoming final of the Higher Institution Football League (HiFL) Finals scheduled to hold on Saturday, November 3rd, 2018. The statement also alleged that the Order also restrains our media partners, Complete sports, Brila FM and Super Sports from any further coverage or promotion of any of the games or football matches under the HiFL platform pending the hearing of the Motion for Interlocutory Injunction, ” said Fijabi. “After due consultation with our legal team, we have been reliably informed that no such injunction has been granted by the Federal High Court. We believe that this is a plot by Alhaji Gara-Gombe to disrupt the arrangements in place for the scheduled matches. Therefore, please note that the matches scheduled for Saturday, November 3rd will hold as planned as arrangements are still in place to ensure same.” “We would also like to use this medium to reaffirm our appreciation for your partnership/sponsorship and support through this maiden edition of the Higher Institution Football League (HiFL) 2018. As organizers of HiFL, it was our expectation that the League would enhance the development and exposure of sporting talents across our higher institutions and holds the potential to place Nigeria on the global sports map, particularly in the collegiate sports community and beyond.” “We are proud and confident to note that with the support of our partners through this maiden edition, we have been able to achieve a sterling feat and we are hopeful of your continued backing in future editions,” he added.  Anthony Nlebem 