Moved by the desire to stop the tide of human trafficking in Nigeria, Beauty in Every Life (BIEL) Foundation, a non-profit organisation focused on empowering youths, women and children, is out to provide an alternative value proposition through life skill and entrepreneurship education. This was revealed at the inaugural interactive session organised recently in Lagos by BIEL on the danger of human trafficking.  It is alleged that many Nigerian youth and women seek greener pastures outside the shores of Nigeria. This type of migration arises because of economic hardships experienced due to the high unemployment rate in the country. However, in the process of looking for a way out of this difficulty, many have fallen victim to false international immigration promises which, in most cases, turn out to be the entry point to slavery and human trafficking. They unknowingly enter a contract to repay their agents, who later subject them to all sorts of inhumane treatment, including prostitution to repay their captors. Ebere Akadiri, the founder of BIEL Foundation said there are an estimated 20.9 million people trapped in some sort of slavery globally today. According to her, it is sometimes referred to as ‘Modern Slavery’, or ‘Human Trafficking’. “Human trafficking is present in all countries around the world but not in the same way. In order to understand and solve the trafficking problem in Nigeria, there is a need to get to the root of the matter,” said Ebere. BIEL through its Keep Dignity Alive Project is set to tackle human trafficking, criminality, and hunger by educating and empowering Nigerian youth to come out of poverty and step into further education or self-employment. “We achieve this goal by creating awareness on the dangers of trafficking and educating Nigerian youth on the signs and prevention of trafficking. “Train schools and communities to detect and prevent trafficking and provide entrepreneurship and life skills education for victims of trafficking and vulnerable youths. It also seeks to partner with international organizations to provide learning resources for local NGOs working in the field of human trafficking in Nigeria,” Ebere stated. Julie Okah-Donli, the DG of NAPTIP said the agency is expecting to receive in its care another 180 victims of human trafficking this week and hope to have more of them back home for proper sensitisation and empowerment. Okah-Donli who was represented by the director Lagos command, Daniel Atokolo stated that the 180 victims of human trafficking, mostly women and children, were brought back to the country on Thursday, October 25, from The Netherlands, Europe, Germany. She however urged Nigerians to be careful of falling victim of human trafficking, and should rather follow then right procedure in engaging house help. “House-owners must go through registered firms to hire cooperate domestic helps, instead of enslaving young girls from the villages. This is a major form of human slavery and we are against it,” said Julie. According to Julie, members of the public are to report any case of human abuse and help sensitize people on the dangers of human trafficking while the agency is collaborating with customs, police and federal ministries to curb human trafficking. It is pertinent to note that the United Nations defines ‘human trafficking’ as the recruitment, transportation, transfer or receipt of persons by improper means (such as force, abduction, fraud or coercion) for an improper purpose including forced labor or sexual exploitation 