Nigeria’s economy is set to witness another major setback as Unions handling critical sectors of the economy, directed total shutdown of the airline, ports, hospitals, public and private institutions as from 12 midnight of Monday, 6th November, 2018. The directive was issued in compliance with the resolution of the Central Working Committee (CWC) of the three labour centres, to press home the demand for the implementation of the N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. Recall that the meeting of the Tripartite Committee on New Minimum Wage called by Federal Government’s team was deadlock, as the leaders of the three labour centres stay-off from the meeting chaired by Boss Mustapha, Secretary to Government of the Federation (SGF) in Abuja on Sunday night. National Union of Air Transport Employees in a memo dated 2nd November, 2018 with Ref. No: NUATE.GS/MD.FAAN/ENP/002-18 addressed to the Managing Director of Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), formally notified him of the ongoing plan to shut down all the airport as from 6th November, 2018. The letter read: This is to bring to your notice that the Nigeria Labour Congress and other partners in the Organised Labour have declared a National Strike as a result of the inability of the Federal Government to agree on the new national minimum wage. “Consequent upon this notice, all aviation workers are hereby directed to withdraw all services and join other Nigerians and stakeholders to proceed on the national strike from Tuesday, 6th November, 2018 @ 00:00hrs. “All airlines operating in/out of Nigeria airports shall be affected by this industrial action. We appeal to your good sense of understanding in this regard. Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere,” Ben Nnabue, NUATE National President said in the memo seen by BusinessDay. In a related development, Joe Ajaero, General Secretary of National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) in another memo titled: “Call for national strike’, issued to all Electricity Employees, dated 2nd November, 2018 also directed them to stay away from work in compliance with the Organised labour’s directive. “Organised labour in the country comprising all the Labour Centres and industrial; unions have decided to resume their suspended industrial action effective November 6, 2018 due to the insensitivity of Government to conclude and implement a new National Minimum Wage negotiated with Labour. “In view of the fact that Organised Labour has demonstrated enough commitment to resolve the impasse through social dialogue but Government has continued to renege from implementing the agreement reached. “All members are therefore directed to stay away from work effective Tuesday, November 6, 2018 in compliance with the directive until otherwise directed. “Any Company management which attempts to thwart the strike action in any form should note and expect appropriate reaction at the end of the exercise. Please ensure full compliance,” Ajaero who doubles as President of United Labour Congress (ULC) said. The Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) in a memo dated 3rd November, 2018 signed by its Senior Assistant General Secretary. Kingsley Okayi, also directed all its members to join the nationwide strike. “I am directed by the National President on behalf of the National Administrative Committee (NAC) to inform you that as an affiliate of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), you are hereby directed to liaise with your State Councils of the NLC and participate actively in the total and indefinite strike action commencing from 12:01am on 6th November 2018 as directed by the Nigeria Labour Congress in affiliation with Trade Union Congress (TUC) and the United Labour Congress (ULC). “This action was clarified and conveyed following a Joint Central Working Committee (CWC) meeting held at Lagos on the 2nd November, 2018.”  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 