The much-expected verbal clashes between incumbent governor, Nyesom Wike of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and his challenger, Tonye Cole of the All Progressives Congress (APC), seem to rev off. Now, the two seem to start off from the House of Chiefs in Port Harcourt where Wike ordered royal fathers not to move except he said so. Now, the men loyal to each flag bearer took over the fight like matadors. Cole camp: Stop pushing royal fathers about (Chidi Lloyd) The Tonye Cole Campaign Organisation, (TCCO), received with shock the reported public reprimand of traditional rulers by the governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike at the 108 and 109 general session of Rivers State Council of Transitional Rulers in Port Harcourt for what the governor referred to as their involvement in partisan politics. Ideally, it is imperative that traditional rulers, as leaders and custodians of the people’s common heritage and culture, should remain non-partisan. We believe that every traditional ruler understands and accepts this position. Ordinarily, a constant reminder to the traditional institution of this age-old norm by a sitting governor should be seen as either routine or prompted by certain misstep by a member or members of the revered institution. However, Monday’s warning by the governor was couched in the harshest and most unconscionable language not deserving, not respectful of and totally demeaning to the hallowed office of the traditional rulers. It is unsettling that Gov. Nyesom Wike decreed that, “If you don’t respect your stool, you will have challenges. Withdraw yourselves from playing politics. If you don’t withdraw yourselves, I will withdraw you. If you take sides, I will also take sides.” We find this style of Hitler-type decree and talking down disgusting, repulsive and unacceptable to the traditional institution in Rivers State and all decent minds. The exact reality on ground is that Gov. Wike has directed that no first class traditional ruler should represent Rivers State government before the federal government or federal agencies without his approval. He has further warned that before any traditional ruler will lead any delegation to visit the Federal Government; such a traditional ruler must have approval from him. This is the highest insult to the traditional institution in Rivers State. It appears that the governor has conquered the good people of Rivers State and their traditional rulers because the people seem to have gone silent in the face of this 21st Century tyranny. Even more troubling is the attempt by Gov. Wike to incite the traditional rulers against the opposition when he stated thus: “We expect the political parties to play by the rules and embark on peaceful and issue-based campaigns. But you must be on the watch out to ensure that no person or entity violates the peace of your communities under the guise of political campaigns.” This indeed is a move to surreptitiously drag the traditional institution into partisan politics on the side of the governor and against the rest of the opposition parties in Rivers State. It is a clear message of intimidation to beat the traditional rulers into line on the side of the governor and his party and against the opposition. We are convinced that the real reasons for the present reprimand of the traditional institution by Governor Wike was occasioned by the open acceptability of the APC governorship candidate in Rivers State, Pastor Tonye Cole who has been received with fanfare by the people and showered with traditional titles during his ongoing ward-to-ward consultative visits across the state. Therefore, we deeply regret this present attempt by Gov. Wike to publicly humiliate the traditional institution for partisan political reasons. The Tonye Cole Campaign Organisation believes that it is only respectful and proper to visit and get formal approval from community leaders before accessing their various communities to interact with the people. We will continue to respect the sanctity of the traditional institution by not undermining its authority, neutrality and fairness to all. We urge Gov. Wike to accord the traditional institution its deserved respect and not want to intimidate and incite our traditional rulers against any group or political party as the governor’s present chastisement appear to indicate. Wike camp: You did worse   (Emma Okah) Rivers State Government says the admonition to Rivers State traditional rulers to stay away from partisan politics is in the best interest of the state and integrity of the positions they occupy as impartial peace makers.
Reacting to a press statement issued by Chidi Lloyd on behalf of Tonye Cole Campaign organisation describing Gov Nyesom Wike’s advise as inciting, the State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Emma Okah said the Director General is misguided because Rivers people are not in a hurry to return to the dark days before May 29, 2015 when the sword of agony was hanging over the head of traditional rulers if they did not openly support the APC.
“Before Gov Nyesom Wike came into office, the APC Government in the state implemented an unwritten code that traditional rulers should support only the APC candidates in the state and shun politicians from the PDP or face severe sanctions. As a result, many of them ran away from their palaces and refused to receive Gov Nyesom Ezenwo Wike who was then the PDP gubernatorial candidate in order to avoid the APC mayhem,” Okah said.
It is on record that some traditional rulers at that time were actively involved in partisan politics and taking advertisements in national and local newspapers to campaign for the APC and in spite of this, the Nyesom Ezenwo Wike administration did not punish any of them when he became governor.
Although Tonye Cole is new to the politics of Rivers State, it is important that his Campaign Director states why the Elele King was denied staff of office, official vehicle and allowances after receiving Gov Nyesom Ezenwo Wike in his palace in Elele Town.
Contrary to the cheap propaganda mouthed by the Campaign Director, Okah said traditional rulers are custodians of culture and tradition of their people as well as peacemakers in their domain. For this role, they are paid stipends from public funds as partners in development at the grassroots. Therefore, it is only natural that if they are to leave their domain for engagements with public agencies outside the state, the governor deserves notification as elementary courtesy demands.
For the Director General to see such harmony and courtesy as evil tells a lot about the quality of the campaign he will direct if Arch. Tonye Cole eventually becomes a governorship candidate in the 2019 election. “We urge the Director General to heed the call by Gov Nyesom Ezenwo Wike to politicians in the state to stick to issue-based campaign as this is the minimum standard required of civilised people all over the world.” Okah said, noting that the days of the jungle and acrimony are over in Rivers State.  Ignatius Chukwu 