Manchester City forward, Raheem Sterling is set to become the highest-paid English footballer after he agreed a new five-year contract deal worth up to £300,000 a week. The new deal represents a considerable hike on his existing £180,000-a-week deal in a move that is a major coup for Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola.
Sterling, 23, has agreed to sign the contract, which will run until the end of the 2022-23 season, and City are expected to make a formal announcement in the next 48 hours.
Pep Guardiola has made no secret of his desire to tie Sterling down to a long-term contract, having watched the England international become an integral member of his squad last year.
“It’s well-known that we are delighted with him, we would like him to continue,” Guardiola said, when asked about Sterling’s contract situation in September.
“What’s important is that Raheem and his people know how delighted we are with him.”
Sterling will follow the likes of Kevin De Bruyne, Fernandinho, Sergio Aguero, Gabriel Jesus and Ederson in signing a new contract at the Etihad this year.
The England international played a major part in City’s record-breaking Premier League title win last season, scoring 23 goals in all competitions.
Sterling has made a total of 152 appearances for City since joining from Liverpool in a high-profile £49million move in 2015.
The size of new contract dictates that he will become the first Englishman to ever surpass £100m in career earnings – including commercial deals and bonuses – before he reaches the age of 25.
His wages will rise considerably as a result of his outstanding performances under Pep Guardiola over the past two and a half years. The England international presently earns about £175,000 a week but under the terms of his new deal he could earn £300,000 a week if bonuses are factored in. Such a pay packet makes him the highest-earning English footballer, and one of the club’s…
Sterling, who was raised by a single mother in the shadow of Wembley and wants to offer opportunities for disadvantaged kids.
After signing a new deal with Manchester City, Sterling is planning on opening a new London football academy for kids from deprived areas. 