The Presidential candidate of the Mass Action Joint Alliance (MAJA), Funmilayo Adesanya-Davies has declared plans to form a unity government if elected as Nigeria’s president during next year’s general election. This is even as the front line female presidential candidate rolled out 35 cardinal programmes with which she plans to return Nigeria to the path of glory, growth and development. Adesanya- Davies said she would form an all inclusive government by incorporating most of the presidential aspirants and candidates of all the political parties in the MAJA- led federal government if given the mandate to rule the country by the electorate. The presidential hopeful made the disclosure in a paper she presented at a public lecture organised by Agents For Positive Transformation at the University of Ibadan, made available to newsmen in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital on Sunday. The Ira- Kwara born politician posited that: “I will form a unity government with most of the 2019 Presidential aspirants and candidates towards rebranding of mentality, re-orientation and revamping of Nigerians. “I will empower the Nigerian youths by creating massive jobs, promoting massive mechanized farming, providing loans, and facilitating industrialization. “I will encourage and galvanize all universities with innovations by putting their productive innovations into budget.” She promised to employ the use of technocrats both at home and in diaspora in running the affairs of the country and as well support and encourage the media agencies to effectively discharge their onerous but very important duties. Among other things, the presidential hopeful promised to increase women’s participation up to 40 percent in her government; ensure that Boko Haram, as well as Fulani herdsmen violence becomes history, by liaising with international bodies, to enhance security, law and order. “I will set up a Constitutional Review Committee geared towards promoting a secular and multi-religious Nigeria to ensure peace and freedom. I will eliminate every trace of the oil subsidy scam and make fuel price about N75 per litre.I will provide free education at every level for the first three children (by the first wife) in a family. “I will pay Nigerian youths N15,000 monthly for working on farms, which forms part of our agrarian goals to diversify Nigeria’s economy, as there is dignity in labour.I will increase minimum wage to N30,000 (N1,000 per day) as Nigeria is an oil-rich nation. I will correct and redress all issues of current lopsided appointments technically, as a detribalised Nigerian in order to eliminate tribalism and ethnocentrism in Nigeria, ” she stated.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin 