There are strong indications that Federal Government’s negotiating team has taken over the Tripartite Committee on New Minimum Wage, as part of efforts aimed at averting the nationwide strike declared by the organised labour. The proposed negotiation meeting scheduled to hold on Sunday, 4th November, 2018 is holding barely 36 hours before the kick-off of the indefinite nationwide strike initiated by the organised labour to press home the demand for the implementation of N30,000 as the new minimum wage. Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment had in a statement issued by Samuel Olowookere, Director, Media for Federal Ministry of Labour & Employment called for a meeting of members of the 30-member Tripartite Committee at Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja. “The Hon. Minister of Labour and Employment, Sen. Chris Ngige says conciliation on the National Minimum Wage will continue despite the injunction of the National Industrial Court restraining the organized labour from embarking on strike. “The Minister in a statement by the Director Press in the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Samuel Olowookere said that the conciliation meeting involving the Organized Labour, the Organized Private Sector and Government scheduled for Sunday, November 4, 2018 at the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation by 6:00 p.m is still on course and will hold. “This will be followed on Monday, November 5, 2018 by 11:00 a.m the meeting of the National Tripartite Minimum Wage Committee at the same venue. “The Minister used the opportunity to again appeal to all tripartite members to attend these meetings in the interest of the Nation,” Olowookere said in the statement obtained by BusinessDay. Meanwhile, some aggrieved members of the Tripartite Committee who spoke with BusinessDay had expressed grave concerns over the hijack of the exercise from the chairman of the Committee, Ama Pepple, who was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2017. They alleged that the exercise which held for about 12 months, was abruptly adjourned sine die by the Minister who doubles as leader of Federal Government’s team, at the twilight of concluding on the negotiation. KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 