An almost dying traditional Yoruba fashion is in the verge of revival due to a new initiative launched yesterday by Governor of Osun State Rauf Aregbesola.
Tagged ‘Ijinle,’ the project is an entrepreneurial initiative aimed at commercially reviving the traditional and unique fashion of the Yorubas in Southwest Nigeria.
It is built around the veteran, Kabiru Durojaiye, a custodian of the age-old and fast-dying Mastercraftsmanship in Vintage Yoruba Tailoring, which is the traditional way of making Yoruba wears. To preserve Kabiru’s skills, Osun organised an entrepreneurship project, through which 15 promising young tailors were competitively selected to intern with Kabiru over 18 weeks to learn the intricate details of producing vintage traditional Yoruba fashion pieces and new products.
The 15 interns graduated from their internship at an elaborate ceremony held November 12 at Terra Kulture, Lagos in the presence of the governor of Osun as well as the incoming governor, Gboyega Oyetola; Ooni Of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, chairman, Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria, Wale Adeeyo; Adebola Williams; Founder, LDA Couture, Lanre Da Silva.
The 15 interns are the first stream of trainees to power a new fashion social enterprise focused on preserving vintage Yoruba tailoring tagged the Ijinle.
The event was hosted by musician, Sound Sultan and Segun ‘Laff Up’ Ogundipe. The Ijinle product line was also launched at the event. Ijinle Vintage, Ijinle Millenial and Ijinle Smart, with Big Brother Nigeria 2018 contestant, Tobi Bakre joining the runway models to showcase the innovative Ijinle vintage and smart pieces.
In keeping with the project’s goal of advocating for further adoption of indigenous fashion in public and private sector for the purpose of boosting the local economy and a Nigerian identity, the event featured Ojoma Ochai, Director of Arts West Africa, British Council who made the case for the government to evolve practical policies to expand the demand side in boosting the Nigerian Garment value chain given that the country currently spends $4 billion yearly on imported clothes.
Speaking at the event, the Governor, State of Osun, commended the trainees, stating that the Ijinle project is the fruition of the inspiration and efforts of many individuals working to improve the State of Osun economy and the country through creativity and entrepreneurship.
Trainees were placed under an 18-week internship program with prolific vintage master-craftsman, Kabiru Durojaye, based in Mushin, where they honed their skills in producing vintage pieces like the traditional Agbada, Dasiki, Buba, Kembe, Agadasi, To’Bo and Kamu.
Upon graduation, the project and its participants will transition into a vintage garment production company based out of Osun with a business development center in Lagos. IJINLE will be producing premium vintage and smart traditionals for corporate and public sector, said the project coordinator, Muinat Attunise.
Prominent Nigerians were seen placing orders for the premium Vintage pieces at the event. Muinat Atunnise announced that the project was open for business and orders could be taken online at the project’s website. 