The House of the Representative on Wednesday unveiled plan to investigate and ascertain the propriety of the alleged scandal trailing the appointment and promotion of the Police officers by Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris. Section 153(1) and Paragraph 30 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) confer powers to appoint, promote, dismiss, and
discipline officers of the Nigeria Police Force (other than the Inspector General of Police) within the exclusive purview of the Police Service Commission. The lawmakers also expressed concerns over the counter directive issued by the Police Service Commission to demote the beneficiaries of the illegitimate appointment and promotion. The House specifically urged the committee to ascertain whether the promotions and the appointment were done in compliance with provision of the provisions of the 1999 Constitution and the general promotion guideline of the Nigerian Police. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion sponsored by Frederick Agbedi (PDP-Bayelsa), who frowned at the lingering crisis trailing the Inspector General of Police’s appointment, posting of State Commissioners and promotion of some officers without recourse to the General Promotion Guideline or the
Police Service Commission. “The House notes that section 153(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) established for the federation, a Police Service Commission saddled with responsibility to appoint and promote persons to offices (others than the office of the Inspector General of Police) in the Nigeria Police Force. “The House further notes that by the virtue of the provision of section 160 (1) of the constitution, the Police Service Commission is empowered to make rules to regulate its own procedures or confer power and impose duties on any officers or authority for the purpose of discharging its function and in the exercise of the power, the police Service Commission, in 2014, approved the General Promotion Guideline for the promotion of the officers” he said. “The House is aware that some of the benefiting officers who felt aggrieved by the decision of the Commission have threatened litigation if the said decision to demote them is carried out while those due, but denied promotion are also spoiling for action. “The House is desirous of the need to ensure professionalism and discipline in the Nigeria Police Force to make sure same is perceived positively locally and internationally,” the Bayelsa lawmaker noted. While ruling, Speaker Yakubu Dogara mandated the House Committee on Police Affairs to investigate the allegation and report back to the House within eight weeks.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 