The management of University of Ilorin has clarified that in line with Federal Government policy, Unilorin does not charge tuition fees, saying, the institution have university charges and faculty charges. A press statement released on Sunday and signed by Kunle Akogun, Director of Corporate Affairs reads:
“The attention of the management of the University of Ilorin has been drawn to the misinformation currently trending on the social media over the slight adjustment in the university charges starting from the 2018/2019 academic session. “We wish to put the record straight and assure our ever responsible students of the management’s good intentions. “The University of Ilorin, in line with federal government policy, does not charge tuition fees. What we have here is university charges and faculty charges. “The items that make up the charges are simply fundamental and basic. For instance, examinations remain sacrosanct,  same for provision of state-of-the-art health and library facilities, in addition to stable electricity and uninterrupted water supply. “The implication is that what is obtainable about 12 years ago can no longer sustain the University in this century. “It should be pointed out that even with the slight adjustment in charges, Unilorin is still among the lowest (if not the very lowest) charging federal universities in the country. This can be confirmed by comparing statistics of what is payable in other universities. “This, however, does not foreclose negotiation between the University management and student leaders for reasonable concession. “It is a well-known fact that even  if  only #1 was added, there will be reaction.The question is how justifiable is the reaction in the face of current realities in providing qualitative university education with needed facilities that guarantee such. “The University management, ever so responsive, has set in motion a  high level negotiation with stakeholders for possible reduction. “As part of this strategy, a meeting has been scheduled for Monday, November 5,  2018, between the leadership of the Student Union, Faculty Presidents and officials of the Student Affairs to find a muddle course solution to the matter.” 