The Buhari Media Organization, BMO has called on the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and its affiliates unions to sheathe their sword and reach an amicable resolution with the government on the ongoing minimum wage negotiation. The group said the Nigeria Labour Congress should consider the interest of the Nigerian people who would ultimately suffer if the crisis persists and the nation grounded by their planned industrial action. BMO in a statement signed by Niyi Akinsiju and Cassidy Madueke, its Chairman and Secretary urged Labour to reason with the position of Government and return to the negotiation table. “Government’s position is informed from an understanding of its revenue and expenditure, not because it is selfish, but because it would not propose a sum that it cannot pay. It is remarkable that the offer of the Federal Government, compared to that of the Organized Private Sector and the State Governments, is the highest. “Notwithstanding, while we acknowledge that more can be done for the welfare of the Nigerian worker, we must start from somewhere. The proposition of the Federal Government to pay 24,500 Naira is a significant increase in the previous minimum wage. It is a good start going forward”, the statement said. The group also noted that it was a good start on the minimum wage conversation and can be built upon in the coming years, but at this point in time should be accepted noting that, a strike action by labor could have far-reaching negative effect that would not only affect the Nigerian Government, but more painfully, hit hard on the everyday Nigerian people. “The good thing is that government is negotiating and willing to sit on the table and improve the working conditions of the Nigerian people. Labor should, in the interest of the Nigerian people, sit on the table with government and heed to their engagements”, they said. The BMO also noted that the President Buhari administration was committed to the welfare of the Nigerian people and would do all that was needed to see to the betterment of their lives. 