With the springing up of manufacturing companies and expansion of businesses in Kwara State, Ace Supermarket has opened a branch in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. Speaking at the commissioning of the Supermarket, Yinka Afonja, chief executive officer of Ace Supermarket, declared that Ace has come to Ilorin to tap into the business potential, to generate employment, to add value to the economy and prove that indigenous players can also compete. The supermarket, according to him, currently operates in Ibadan, Abeokuta, Oshogbo, Oyo, Ile-Ife and Ogbomosho. “We have built our biggest branch in Ilorin by popular demand. We pledge we shall continue to operate as responsible institution to offer best services and value always,” Afonja said. While describing Kwara State as one of the best investment hub states in Nigeria after Lagos, Afonja, attributed his investment in the state to business oriented policies created by the governor. He said, “I can say confidently that his administration`s excellent policies in urban renewal, peace and security, ease of doing business have made Ilorin an investors’ and tourist destination. “From my observation and going by my investment across major cities in Southwest Nigeria, I make bold to say that Ilorin is the fastest growing economy in the Southwest cities in Nigeria apart from Lagos.” Afonjaw, however, called on the state government to provide adequate power supply for businesses to continue to strive. Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, who commissioned the supermarket, promised that his administration would not force investors to pay tax but rather, it will create conducive business environment that will enable them to pay without being forced. The governor praised the investor for bringing such a laudable business to the city which will create jobs for teeming youths in the state. The governor, however, called on business tycoons to bring their investments to the city, say in the state has created business sustainable policies that will enable business development. === 