… says trader’s empowerment scheme met to induce voters …We are doing what PDP did not do- APC As the 2019 general elections approaches, the Lagos State chapter of the  People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) of desperation and pre-election vote buying. The PDP in a statement yesterday, signed by its Publicity Secretary, Taofeek Gani, said that the recent visit of the Vice President, Yemi Osibanjo, to the African shrine was an obvious manifestation of desperation, jitters and want of votes, stressing that the Vice President is not on record to have ever associated with the African shrine. The statement, described the visit of the vice president to certain markets in the state to physically share N10, 000 to traders, in the name of trader-money empowerment as clear action of pre-election vote buying, adding it was confident that Lagosians will not vote out the APC in 2019, urging the traders and other groups to collect such monies but vote their conscience. “The recent visit of the vice president to the African shrine is obvious manifestation of desperation and jitters as the vice president is not on record to have ever associated with the African shrine, “but now running helter-skelter to visit shrine for want of vote”. “The visit of the vice president to certain markets in the state to physically share N10, 000 to traders, in the name of trader-money empowerment as clear action of pre-election vote buying as the gesture at this period is tainted with intent to buy the conscience of the traders to vote APC in the state”. The PDP further urged former governor of the state and current Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, to not only confess that he has been refusing requests to fund Buhari’s re-election, but that the minister  should also confess his monumental financial support to President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign team in 2015. But reacting to the statement in an interview with Business day yesterday, the Publicity Secretary of Lagos APC, Joe Igbokwe, said that the party was carrying out the job which the PDP failed to do when they were in power, stressing that the country was at the present precarious position because the PDP mismanaged its resources. “The PDP should keep quiet, we are doing what they did not do and they should allow us work, they should even appreciate us. They are the one that put this country into this position. The PDP are looters, are they back from Dubai? Is it Dubai that they would hold election?” “The visit of the vice president to certain markets in the state to physically share N10, 000 to traders, in the name of trader-money empowerment as clear action of pre-election vote buying as the gesture at this period is tainted with intent to buy the conscience of the traders to vote APC in the state.