… As SuperSport thrills fans with Live Manchestter derby on HD or DStv.
Ahead of this Sunday’s highly anticipated Manchester derby between fierce rivals Manchester City and Manchester United, Pep Guardiola, Man City manager has assured the world that both he and his counterpart Jose Mourinho are good friends.
Guardiola said this at the pre-match press conference and also spoke about the significance of this Manchester derby.
“All derbies are special,” he said.
“It isn’t the biggest game of the season.
“It means a lot for the fans and it’s special because you can beat your rivals or not, but we are only in November.
“The return match at Old Trafford will be more important.
“[On his rivalry with Mourinho] Fortunately, it’s much better.
“At the end of the day, we are good people, better than you think.”
The former Barcelona coach is wary of the threat that the Red Devils pose, particularly after their impressive comeback win against Juventus in the Champions League.
“They are a team that were capable of winning in Turin, where almost no-one has won,” he continued.
“They were very solid and aggressive without the ball. Everyone worked hard.
“In November it’s impossible to be out of the title race.
“They have picked up and the big clubs have a big club mentality. To keep pushing always.
“Man United have their history and it will always be there.”
Although Manchester United has won more games in the derby, Pep Guardiola’s highflying Manchester City who are sitting pretty at the top of the Premier league table are looking to pull one over their cross-city rivals. With 29 points and a whooping goal difference of 29 after just 11 games, the Citizens are hoping to continue their winning streak at the Derby as they remain unbeaten this season.
The very first edition of the series took place on 12 November 1881 when Manchester City hosted Manchester United after which the match ended 3-0 in favour of Manchester United. The football tradition is set to continue this year when the two teams mount the pitch and battle it out. The Reds however, coached by Jose Mourinho, sits 7th on the log and with 9 points separating both teams. The Premier League match, which is set to take place on Sunday, November 11 at 5:30 pm on SS3, will be the 38th edition of the competition.
Manchester United have a fitness scare over Paul Pogba ahead of Sunday’s derby at the Etihad Stadium.
Pogba was unable to train with the rest of United’s squad on Friday and instead forced to work indoors after suffering what has been described as a “little injury”.
It is unclear at this stage if the France midfielder is in danger of missing the trip to Manchester City or when the problem occurred. The Manchester derby will be broadcast live on SuperSport on HD or DStv.
All active DStv subscribers can enjoy pulsating action from this fiery battle at 5:30 pm LIVE and in HD on SS3 (channel 223). Follow the conversation on Twitter (@DStvNg), Instagram (@dstvnigeria ) and Facebook (@DStvNg) with the hashtags #PLonDStv.  Anthony Nlebem 