Beeta Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF) has presented the second outing of the stage play Our Son the Minister, written Paul Ugbede, directed by Kenneth Uphopho, and produced by award-winning actress and talented thespian, Bikiya Graham-Douglas. Our Son the Minister is the winning play of the first edition of Beeta Playwright Competition 2017, which kept its promise by publishing and producing the play. Designed to promote the arts, particularly playwriting so as to throw up new talents, BUAF will happily share the play with the general public through its second performance. Performance venue is Terra Kulture Arena, Victoria Island, Lagos, on the second weekend of November 9, 10, and 11, 2018. Time is 3pm and 7pm daily. Our Son the Minister is a biting political satire.  The play revolves around  Doctor Makoji on his inauguration  day. As he  prepares to be sworn in as minister, his family and friends make plans on how to share the enticing National cake he is set to bring home. Alarmed by their plans, an austere Makoji decides to turn down the ministerial appointment. They conclude he has gone mad and are in  a desperate race to find a solution to cure him.  This play is hilarious yet thought-provoking. It stars talented actors that include Patrick Diabuah, Inna Erizia, Chris Iheuwa, Soibifaa Dokubo, Bola Stephen, Biodun Kassim, Bunmi Sogade, Omololu Sodiya, and Dapo Gbadamosi. The play is family-friendly and a perfect theatre piece that matches the election season that will  soon engulf Nigeria in its frenzy. Audience are to come prepared to laugh out loud. The play  will also be  toured around  five universities across the country to deepen its theme of  the value of  re-orientation amongst young Nigerians. The show is sponsored by MTN, Union Bank, Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC), and supported by Terra Kulture, Oyewole&Olajide LLP, Amstel Malta, DSTV, AfricaMagic, and Silverbird. Also, plans are at advanced stage for the judging process for the second edition of Beeta Universal Arts Foundation competition. The prize jury includes respected and creative theatre professionals like award-winning playwright and professor of theatre arts, Ahmed Yerima, culture and film, journalist, and arts administrator, Mr. Shaibu Husseini , veteran actress and producer, Ego Boyo, theatre producer and writer, Ayo Jaiyesimi, director and actor, Kenneth Uphopho, publisher and book seller, Ibiso Graham-Douglas. Lead sponsor of the prize, Union Bank Plc through Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, its head, corporate communication and marketing, noted, “Union Bank is pleased to partner with Beeta Universal Arts Foundation for the second year to deliver this worthy competition. As a bank that has been around for 100 years, we recognize how invaluable the arts is to preserving and showcasing our culture and history, which is why we remain committed to developing the talent in the creative industry.” 