Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) says Nigeria tops other African countries in remittances of inflows and is among the leading five globally. He made this known at a remittance household survey workshop jointly organised by the CBN and the African Institute for Remittances (AIR) on Tuesday in Abuja. Emefiele, who was represented by Mohammed Tumala, the Director, Statistics Department of CBN, said that remittance inflows contribute substantially to foreign exchange earnings and household finances in most developing countries. “Money sent home by migrant workers is among the major financial inflows to developing countries and in some cases it exceeds international aid and grants.’’ According to the World Bank, global remittances have risen gradually over the years to about $613 billion in 2017, of which $72 billion have been received by African countries. Emefiele said that in recent years, Nigeria has taken measures aimed at attracting remittance inflow and contribute to its economic development. The measures include the floating of a $300 million Diaspora bond by the government and the introduction of electronic Certificate of Capital Importation to Nigerians in Diaspora. He added that Nigeria becoming a member of the International Association of Money Transfer Networks was also one of the measures taken. He, however, said that compilers of remittance statistics in the country used banking records and staff estimates of informal inflows, a methodology that had its own challenges. “We think that a large chunk of migrants’ remittances pass through informal channels and are thus unrecorded. “Nigeria is yet to conduct a household based remittances survey to provide scientific estimates of these informal inflows”. “In addition, data from banking records also come with some discrepancies due to classification challenges on the part of reporting institutions.’’ The CBN governor said that this informed the decision to request for technical assistance to help in data collection on the inflows. He added that the workshop would ultimately support improvements in Nigeria’s remittances transactions and enhance the quality of data on remittances as presently reported in the country’s balance of payments. Tumala was represented by Emmanuel Olowofeso, of the Statistics Department, CBN. 