The National Coordinator of Atiku Abubakar Support Group, Nath Iduma, has challenged members of the group to ensure that the PDP presidential candidate wins with a landslide victory in the 2019 presidential election. He made the call in Abuja on Thursday during an interactive session by a coalition of support groups with the theme: ‘Turning the popularity of Atiku/Obi into Electoral Success’. While addressing the coalition, Iduma explained that the Presidential Candidate of the PDP, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate, Peter Obi are successful businessmen, stressing that Nigeria will succeed when governance becomes business. He said: “Atiku Obi came together by providence and they are tested persons. I believe that if we have people that can run government as they run business, then that government is going to succeed. “In Yola, Atiku has several investment and when both of them come together, the problem of the country which is unemployment will be handled. Both of them who are business minded people will run government like business. Unless we win this election with massive vote, it is likely they are going to rig us out.” He challenged PDP and its Presidential candidate to invest massively on the youth, even as he reminded the coalition that Atiku pledged to allocate 40% of positions to the youths, urging them to work hard and grab the opportunity. On his part, the National Youth Leader of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Udeh Okoye, charged the support groups to dominate the social media and counter the All Progressives Congress (APC) propaganda against the former Vice President. Also in his remarks, Aliyu Abbas, Chairman of Atiku Care Foundation, said that with Atiku, citizens cannot continue to suffer from hunger and starvation. “Atiku Abubakar is not only a politician but an international business man, an educationists, a farmer and a philanthropist,” he said. The National Convener of the coalition of Atiku four largest support groups, Ike Okoronkwo said that the groups have mobilised over 10 million youths across the country for Atiku. He added that before the 2019 general elections, the groups will mobilise about 20 million voters across the 774 local governments for the PDP presidential candidate. 