In a bid to change perception and deepen consumers’ appreciation of the drinks market in Nigeria, experts at the upcoming International Drinks Festival will address the role of regulation, high cost of operating environment and high import dependency stakeholders face. The general market sentiments often pit regulators against businesses in the drinks segment instead of partners. While regulators see owners of companies in the space as the by-passing rules, the players on their part believe they are being witch-hunted with rigorous procedures. At the basics, both really want to ensure that high standards are maintained and quality of beverages is not detrimental to consumers’ health. Organizers of the festival, the Balmoral Group, a 360 events company, disclosed in a statement that it has concluded plans to secure the full participation of regulatory and management agencies who will educate and enlighten attendees on core areas of standardizations and regulations in the Nigeria drinks industry. The expected agencies include Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Lagos Inland Revenue Services (LIRS), and Nigerian Customs. The first day of the festival will feature the summit which would focus on government and brand education. Topics to be discussed include Government Regulations in Promoting the Drinks Industry and Brand Education and its Impact on Society. The sessions will be anchored by regulators. On the second day, participants will be engaged in sessions on taxation and manufacturing with topics like ‘Understanding Taxation in the Drinks Business and Sourcing Raw Materials in the Nigerian Landscape’. “Knowledge is power and we need to be able to distinguish between taxes, levies and fines,” a tax expert said of the first edition of the festival. Other sessions at the festival include Branding and Marketing which will feature topics such as Drinks Industry as a major contributor to the Nigerian Lifestyle and Branding African Drinks for the World as focal points. 