The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants has said it will not relent on its quest to boost Human capital development in the country’s financial sector even as it pushes for collaboration among organisations. Tom Isibor, Country head, ACCA Nigeria says as a global body for accounting and finance professionals, it is ready to engage a lot with accounting firms to achieve the desired human capital development of its members. Isibor stated this in Lagos at the official presentation of certificate to PKF Nigeria as an approved employer. He observes that ACCA in the last five years have done a lot of research to try and understand what accounting of the future would look like, what the skill set and    expectations of business would be adding that in response to this, ACCA did a lot of modification to its qualifications. According to him, “One of the objectives of such modification is to ensure that accountants that are ACCA trained have the right competencies and skill set to become a preferred accountant of the future”. He further opines that going forward ACCA will collaborate with organisations to see how to fill in the skills gap that accounting and non-accounting practitioners require. Tajudeen Akande, Senior managing partner PKF Nigeria lauded ACCA for the recognition and for finding the organisation worthy of the certificate. Akande observes that ACCA and PKF are partners in developing accounting and finance related profession by making it relevant to the economy. Earlier in his opening address, Abayomi Qassim, business relationship manager Lagos and West, ACCA says the certification indicates that PKF has joined the league of over 7, 000 companies globally that have received this seal from ACCA. He noted that the presentation of the certificate shows that ACCA recognises the effort PKF Nigeria has put in terms of human capital development. Qassim pledges ACCA support to fill capacity gaps identified by PKF Nigeria in its daily operations free of charge at no cost to the organisation. 