Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has said that his administration’s multi-billion naira urban renewal programme for Kano metropolis was not only aimed at giving the state capital a facelift but upgrading it to a city comparable with modern cities around the world. “The programme aims to kill several birds with one stone. We are aiming at addressing the issue of urban transportation, sanitation, urban beautification and erosion control at once”, he said. “We are worried that some places are facing the problem of erosion, many large settlements have emerged without accessibility, dilapidated roads and so one. An emerging mega city like ours will not be sustainable without sustainable infrastructure that will enhance the quality of lives of our people”, he maintained. The governor assured that as the city projects are gradually completed, change would be visible across communities as the quality of homes and indeed the environment would look modern while delivery of services would be facilitated. Ganduje stated this while inspecting three on-going road projects in Kano City. The projects are Gidan Zakkah-Kofar Waika 1.1 kilometer road, constructed at N270million; Kawo-Giginyu 3 kilometer road at N588million and Gidan Maza-Kumbotso 8.7 kilometer road at N1. 2 billion. The governor noted that even though the deployment of heavy plants and excavation was causing hardship to motorists and communities along the projects’ sites, there was the need for people to cooperate with the contractors to speed up the work. At the Gidan Zakkah-Kofar Waika road, the state Commissioner for Works, Aminu Aliyu, told the governor that work on the culverts was progressing while asphalt overlay on the road would commence in the next two weeks. Regarding the Kawo-Giginyu road, he explained that there were issues to be sorted out in respect of property compensation but estimated that the project would be completed by February 2019 while work on Gidan Maza-Kumbotso road was progressing without hitches.  Adeola Ajakaiye, Kano 