Minister of State, Aviation, Hadi Sirika on Sunday advised all passenger to subject themselves to security adding that no one is exempt from going through airport security checks. Sirika who said these checks are mandatory, conventional, internationally applied and routine, said “one is excused from them under our laws. These checks are carried out on all international arrivals and President Buhari does not get involved in them.” In a statement he personally signed, he said, Law-abiding citizens are encouraged to respect the laws of the country and our VIPs should not seek to be treated over and above the citizens they wish to serve. The Minister who was reacting to Atiku’s complaints about airport officials action to search his luggage at the airport, said “Nigerians need to know that one of the resolutions of the Atiku team at their recently-concluded, opulently-held Dubai retreat was to embark on scaremongering” “For the records, all incoming passengers on international flights go through customs, Immìgration, health and security screening. He explained that while the aircraft is using the private, charter wing, as the PDP Candidate did, such arrivals are met by a team of the Immìgration, customs and other security agencies. “They go to the arriving aircraft as a team. The airport authorities confirm that this is a routine process, applying to all international arrivals, including the minister unless the passenger is the President of Nigeria. The President, the Vice President and passengers aboard planes on the Presidential air fleet use the Presidential wing of the airport. He stated “that even in the Presidential Wing of the airport the President of Nigeria uses, there is the presence of Immìgration and other security officials who must stamp his or her passport on arrival. “By standard procedure, all aircraft on international arrivals must first of all park at the international wing of the aircraft. They can move to the domestic terminal only upon the completion of the arrival processes. “While it is true that the Task Force on Currency at the airport did the routine action of checking the former Vice President’s travel bag, he was accorded full respect as a senior citizen.” Tony Ailemen, Abuja 