The Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), an umbrella body of chambers of commerce in the country, has appealed to the Federal and state governments of the South-East region to provide infrastructure, such as roads, rail and constant electricity, which are critical elements to economic development.
Alaba Lawson, national president, NACCIMA, who made this appeal at the opening ceremony of the just concluded “Aba Investment Summit,” however, applauded Abia State government for promoting made-in-Aba products.
Represented at the event by Asite Simon, a national officer of NACCIMA, Lawson observed that Governor Okezie Ikpeazu had continued to show passion for promoting made-in-Aba products, which had reflected in his administration’s unrelenting support for businesses, through programmes and incentives for manufacturers and the chamber movement.
She noted that the state government’s collaboration with the Aba Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (ACCIMA) to organise the first Aba Economic and Investment Summit, was further indication of its long-term vision for the state, and commended Governor Ikpeazu for participation at the first Nigerian-China Governor’s Investment Forum, held in Guangzhou, China in 2017.
According to the NACCIMA president, “Aba’s thriving industrial clusters churn out goods worth billions of dollars annually. It is widely acclaimed as the commercial centre of the South-East and described, as the ‘Japan of Africa’ with a population of around 534,000.
“The people of Aba are well known for their unique craftsmanship, entrepreneurial prowess and the ‘can do spirit’. Aba is therefore a city we are all proud of. It was therefore not a surprise that Aba was chosen, as the first city, where the MSME Clinic, was launched by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo.
“To further affirm the pivotal role of Aba in this region, president Muhammadu Buhari in his 2017 budget address to the National Assembly, described Aba as the manufacturing powerhouse of the nation, which must be supported.”
She described the theme of the summit, “Repositioning Aba as an investment hub for rapid economic development” as apt and underscores the fact that there are investment opportunities for investors to tap into in Aba.
She further observed that the summit provided the required platform for extensive discussions and networking with overall aim of improving productivity and the contribution of clusters of industries in Aba to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP) and promoting made-in-Nigeria products.
She observed that contributions of experts and facilitators, exhibitions and innovations, at the summit would provide valuable ideas on attainment of the goals and objectives of the summit and promote sustainable development of the economy of Abia State and Nigeria at large. 