Presidential candidate of the Providence People’s Congress (PPC), Victor Okhai, says he has the political will to transform Nigeria and make the country work for the people. He says his agenda will be to diversify the economy by creating industrial hubs, improving infrastructure and agriculture. In this interview with JOHN OSADOLOR, INNOCENT ODOH and EDU ATTING, the Edo State-born public intellectual points out that Nigeria urgently needs fiscal restructuring to allow components parts of the country to exploit their natural and human resources, adding that when he becomes president, he will initiate measures to restructure Nigeria into a proper federation. Excerpts: Is your party a member of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP), if not, why? My party, the Providence People’s Congress (PPC) is not a member of the coalition. I certainly would not have even associated with any party that is a member of the CUPP and I will tell you why. First, I came in to this because I wanted to run for the office of the President. I am not gambling neither I am getting into this race like an experiment, I have always known that I was going to this for over 30 years unlike a lot of people who just got into the game now. So, for me, there is no time to beat about the bush. For me the coalition is simply people gathering together to endorse a PDP candidate and nothing else and the Vice President’s slot certainly cannot come out of any of the other members because it is already set. So all these coalition members are going to collapse into the PDP. I am running to win and not  experimenting, so why would l line up behind them? If I wanted an appointment or if I wanted to be a political trader and at the end of the day be satisfied with a ministerial or board appointment, then I can join the coalition but that is not what want. I am out there to create a disruption in the system. It may be true that not many people have heard my name and the question will be where are you coming from, what pedigree do you have and all that? And I say “simply watch my space”. We have to wait and see but I am out to cause a major political disruption in the system. I am in the race to win, it is not an experiment. What kind of disruption do you want to bring? A disruption is obviously something like an innovation that upsets the run of the mill or the regular state of affairs. In politics as it has been practiced in this country, there are certain things that have been taken as normal. For instance, the first question people ask me is what part of the country are you from, then they will go ahead and say don’t you know that this has been zoned to a particular part of the country? But I ask, if it has been zoned to a particular candidate from another part of the country how is that binding on me as a Nigerian? Is it constitutional? So as far as I am concerned I cannot be moved by some fallacy and some imposition of zoning by certain group of people, I am not interest in all of that. I am a Nigerian and at my age I have decided to run for that office, I don’t have time to wait. We keep mouthing that we want to change Nigeria, we cannot do that just by sitting down, and we cannot do that by listening to what people are saying that it is not yet time. Some have said why don’t you go to the local government area, and I feel insulted by that. I feel competent to run Nigeria and I feel I am better qualified than those running this country. Getting into that place the narrative is going to change, the ideas are going to be revolutionary no doubts about and Nigerians will see the Third Force they have been looking for. I represent that voice, that champion that Nigerians are looking. In terms of the finance and structure what is your strength? In terms of finance I am not a politician but a person in politics. And as a person in politics there are certain things that should be private to me. What I can say to people is that Nigerians are going to invest in his project, like I said Nigerians are looking for a champion. The oppressed people in the North East are looking for a voice, the people of the Middle Belt, South east, South-south are looking for a voice. Even El-Zakzaky people are looking for a voice. Nigerians generally are looking for a champion and I represent that. I am going to be that voice which all other groups will coalesce behind. I am the coalition that Nigerians are looking for. I am not joining any coalition Nigerians will form a coalition to back me up in this project. So in terms of financing, Nigerians will back up this project, in terms of structure Nigerian will stand up and represent this movement in their various constituencies. Judging by the Not-Too-Young-to-Run Law,what would you say is your support base in relation to the youth? When we talk about the Not- Too- Young –To- Run, I think we should look at it from different perspectives. Apart from the age side I think we should probably be talking about Not-Too-New -To -Run. In terms of support base I am in an industry where I have interacted so much. I am a journalist and a film maker, so the level of interaction that I have had and the class of people that I deal with are obviously in that category. I have organized a film festival that was targeted at the young people. For a very long time I have had to deal with the youth at various levels, so I don’t have a problem interacting with them. So, by the time we launch out fully I think it will become immediately obvious that I am the candidate that the young people are looking for. But what is more important is that most of the candidates don’t know what the time is saying. But I am one person who knows and understands the times and modern business. In terms of IT, I am as current as tomorrow’s newspaper and current in terms of digital technology. And in any case what I have in mind is about running a green and digital economy- two things that are very critical. If you look at Apps for instance a single App can provide hundreds of jobs. I think that the new ABC should be coding for our young kids from kindergarten, they should learn how to code by the time they are 12 and they should be producing Apps by the time they are 16 and producing millions in dollars. That is the future that I envisage for our young people, so we need to equip them. There are people moving with their phones and what they are trading in is crypto currency or forex which is a legitimate business but the police will accost them and call them 419. Because there is no properly articulated program for this young people they are being treated like common criminals. If you create tech hubs all over the country and make sure there is power, there is high-speed internet, create an environment where they can work and collaborate with one another and also teach them entrepreneurial skills they will become more productive. Nobody wanted to be hunted like a rabbit down the road. These young people should be helped to convert their skills into more respectable things instead of doing  “yahoo, yahoo”. Your party may not be that popular so what are you doing to sell yourself and the party as we go into the campaigns from November 18? If you look at what is happening, we are different and by virtue of where I am coming from, I believe more in planning. I can spend 90% of my time planning and 10% time for implementation. What we have been doing all the while is making sure of grassroots penetration and I can tell you authoritatively that we are in the 36 states of the federation. By the time we activate, when we go out for the campaign these are the people that will bring the crowd, it won’t be any rented crowd. What we are doing now is to concentrate on the grassroots mobilization, reaching out to people and increasing our membership drive. We are moving to the grassroots and we are also going to do social media engagement. So by the time that we activate everybody will hear about  PPC. We have not heard of any implosion in your party, how did you manage that? There is freedom of association in our constitution and you cannot say to anybody don’t join or join this party. The only thing is that there are certain principles that we abide by. PPC is a party whose ideology is quite different from others. Integrity is very important for this party. If you go to our website you will see that, no god fatharism, no money bags, no rituals and we are serious about that. So when you come in there if you are of the old school you will be uncomfortable because you cannot come there and flaunt money. So if it was about money or godfather I would probably not have emerged as presidential candidate. The process in PPC is transparent. Our election was by Option A4 for our primaries. So people who are not comfortable with these three things that I mentioned cannot fit in. If you do not win as the president, how will you relate with the president and what will be your position in terms of service to Nigeria? First of all, I am not contemplating not winning, not winning is not an option for me. I am in this to win otherwise I will be part of the coalition. However, time and chance happens and God may ordain a bit of shift in time, and so if that happens, I have always been a patriot, I am professional I always have what I do. So in whatever position that I find myself I will give my best like I have always done for this country. As citizens,we owe allegiance first to our country and support for those in power as well. As an individual I don’t have any problem with that and I expect the other candidates to extend that hand of fellowship to me as well. I expect Atiku to accept defeat in good faith, I expect Buhari to accept defeat in good faith as well as the other candidates when I emerge as the winner and I am being sworn in on May 29, 2019. The political economy of Nigeria is anchored on systems and structures that have hindered its development. What would you initiate to ensure that the political economy works for the people? I don’t believe that the people in government do not know the solution to our problems. We know in theory how things should be fixed, what is lacking is the will to do what is right. I have the will to implement what is right. I give an example, everyone has been talking about power in this country. Everyone knows that to fix power all you need to do to activate the sector is to take it out of the exclusive list, which the legislature has passed a bill to that effect . After all what is the incentive for me to produce power and you immediately take it and put it into the national grid, I cannot even benefit from it. I can produce enough power to take care of myself and others and then after producing you begin to give me two hours of power that is not proper. What is lacking is the political will to do the right thing. For instance we are a consumption nation, no right thinking government would want cheap money from crude oil, or just sell it raw agricultural products like that and then make quick money.  Every cocoa beans that we export comes back as chocolate and other products cost twenty or thirty dollars because of the value addition. So even if we start in a crude way, why don’t we process our cocoa to chocolate or to beverages here? Our oranges can also be processed here. Go to Alibbab.com you will see simple juicy equipment for 1,000 dollars, 500 dollars, 1,500 dollars. Some for packaging and things like that. Take these things to the Benue belt to process the oranges in that belt, transform the raw materials, create industrial hubs and empower people. About 90% of the products is lost in transportation so why don’t we create these industrial hubs around the country. These are the things that I will do. From the raw material base to the processing points the transport will be very short to have minimal wastage. But more importantly, there are other ancillary industries such as processing, packaging, bottling, printing that will be created. Is it difficult for our people to fathom this or just that Nigerian leaders simply don’t have the will to do it? I give you another example. There can a marriage between the leather industry in Kano and the shoe and bag making industry in Aba. This brings me to the issue of restructuring. I look at a country like The Gambia for instance with a population of about 2.5 million people and Benue state, which is about 3.4 million. When you look at these two entities, Gambia is a country standing by itself; the food in Benue can feed Nigeria. The Gambia is not known for food like Benue state and yet The Gambia is sustainable. Go to the US today every state stands by itself, they run like individual economies. The economy of Lagos is about the sixth or seventh largest in the African continent, if you go to Zamfara there is gold there, but we are not doing anything about it. There is no state in Nigeria today that is not sustainable irrespective of what the people are saying. It is so because we are not looking inwards, we are looking at the Niger Delta oil. This is what will separate me from the pack. I know what to do and I have the will to do the right thing for the country. So the politics of the economy is the will to do the right thing for the economy. The present government has said that they don’t understand the meaning of restructuring. The Vice President said that in his understanding, restructuring means dividing Lagos or Ogun or dividing Nigeria. Convince Nigerians that you understand what is restructuring? A lot of people out there are mouthing the word restructuring but if you call ten people here you will get ten different meanings. Fiscal restructuring is what I advocate. The way this country is today, is such that you are sitting on resources but you cannot exploit them. I went to Sharada industrial estate in Kano and I saw factories that are down completely, nothing is being done about them, they could have been employing thousands of people. But you know what, somebody somewhere in the centre has taken a decision on behalf of the ordinary man in Kano without his input and the implication is the empty factory that you see in Sharada. Policies you make in the middle without due recourse to the people on ground can affect them negatively. Restructuring to me is giving the people a say in what pertains to them, localizing their economy, localizing the component units in Nigeria to make them more efficient . I believe that we are stronger together as one. I believe that our biggest resource is human capital. Let the government of Zamfara exploit their gold and make the money out of it and pay royalties. We need one army to protect the country against external aggression but for the police there are crimes that are localized, there are federal crimes like murder for instance. If it is ordinary felony or misdeamanour those things can be localized. You don’t need a federal police to take care of that. You will suddenly discover that the gold in Zamfara and Oshogbo are more than enough. In Plateau, tin, columbite and all the other things nobody is talking about them anymore. So a central government that does not know what is happening in the other component parts is at the center trying to take a decision on behalf of everybody. So it got too much load. The reason we have all the violence in the country is because we have a central government that is not listening. If the Niger Delta people are crying and the federal government is not paying attention to them, that is when you see that pipelines being blown up, if IPOB is crying and you are not paying attention to them, El-Zakzaky and so on are crying and you are not paying attention that is the cause of tension. What triggered the Boko Haram was because the police did not pay attention to them they started victimizing them. Every war will end with jaw-jaw, so why don’t we get engaged in the talks? I am the best man for this job because I cut across diverse backgrounds. My father is from Edo state, my mother is from Abia state, I grew up in the Middle belt and I live in the South west. So I am able to relate unlike many others, who are constrained in one part of the county. If I throw a stone it is either going to hit my mother’s side or the place I grew up in. So Nigeria needs somebody who cuts across a diverse background and that is what I represent. What is your take on corruption and how would you provide solution to corruption? For me, a system is defined by its leadership. If a man is at the top of an organisation and he is incorruptible that is on the one hand. But if he condones corruption then that system is already corrupted. Corruption for me is an aberration of the normal run of things. For instance, if an employment process has rules, any deviation from the rules is corrupting the system. So to condone it at all is a worst form of corruption. The reason the country is the way it is today is simple, the will to fight corruption is not there. I heard the Vice President the other day say that when he wants to punish people for corruption, ethnic and religious leaders will come to intervene and I ask, do you need the permission of anybody to punish corrupt people? The VP just indicted himself. So if I am to fight corruption, the first example is to start from my very backyard. I will sacrifice my own people first to send the signal because when that happens, everybody will know that nobody will be spared. That to me is how to fight corruption. I will introduce preventive measures to tackle corruption because it is cheaper to prevent than to fight or begin to prosecute. If we do that Nigeria will work and everybody will benefit. 