Adams Oshiomhole, APC National Chairman and Bukola Saraki, President of the Senate have resumed their recently suspended verbal battle. Oshiomhole and Saraki were at daggers drawn months ago when the former constantly insisted that the later was wrongly occupying the number three seat after his defection from APC while the later always attacked the former for political overzealousness. Their verbal battle was renewed Wednesday when the Senate President asked the APC National Chairman to resign in view of the controversial roles he played in the APC primaries including bribery allegations leveled against him. According to Saraki, “Oshiomhole is somebody, who is known to have been collecting not even naira but dollars from candidates and he is being accused by his party’s aspirants and Governors. “I don’t think he has any moral ground, even to continue to be in politics not to talk about being a Chairman of a party”. But Oshiomhole while replying Saraki challenged him to mention one name of an aspirant that gave money to him or he  would file a legal action against him, describing the attacks on him by Saraki as pathetic and irresponsible resort to petty politics. Oshiomhole in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary Simon Ebegbulem on Thursday said Saraki, a usurper of and pretender to the position of senate president, had no moral ground to call for the resignation of the national chairman. The statement read, “it is sad that Saraki, who just woke up from slumber occasioned by his crushing defeat at the Port Harcourt presidential primary election of his party, could degenerate to such a low level. “It is equally sad, but not unexpected, that Saraki, who is politically drowning, would make such  libelous comments against the national chairman of the APC. And I challenge Saraki to mention one name of an aspirant that gave money to the National Chairman or we file a legal action against him. “Whereas, the basis on which he made those comments was tenuous and unjustifiable, it is on record that Saraki has been in the eye of investigations by the EFCC and the ICPC for sundry cases of corruption. That is the same man that has taken it upon himself to question Comrade Oshiomhole’s credibility. “We challenge him to mention one person who has claimed that he gave money to Oshiomhole to influence him and the decision of the party’s national working committee (NWC) in the just-concluded primary elections. We insist that Saraki with his kind of prebendal politics is nothing but a monumental disgrace to the nation’s democracy.”