There are emerging cracks in the reelection campaign structures of President Muhammadu Buhari. This is a group known as Buhari Campaign Organization, BCO has demanded an apology from the Director of Strategic Communications, President Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organisation, Festus Keyamo for linking it to the leaked letter soliciting contracts from the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing to fund the President’s reelection campaign. The Good Governance Awareness Campaigner Arm of the Buhari Campaign Organization in a letter addressed to the Permanent Secretary of Ministry of Power, Works and Housing dated September 20, the Campaign Group requested for a contract to supply and install Road Signs along Federal Highways to cushion the Financial Pressure on them as they intend to move the campaign train to the grassroot in the Six Geo Political Zones in the country. Keyamo while reacting to the letter which went viral said, ‘Buhari Campaign Organisation’ does not have the authority or mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari to solicit or raise funds from public institutions, corporate bodies or individuals for any campaign activity whatsoever. “This is also a notice to all such public institutions not to honour any such requests as the one from the amorphous Buhari Campaign Organisation”. But Danladi Pasali, BCO National Cooordinator Tuesday in Abuja distanced the organization from the letter describing it as fake, self-funded and peopled by persons of verified Integrity. Pasali in a statement made available to journalists in Abuja said, “we wish to state unequivocally that the letter to the Ministry did not emanate from the headquarters of Buhari Campaign Organization but from fraudsters, scammers and enemies of progress of the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR “For the purpose of history, Buhari Campaign Organization (BCO) was established since ANPP, CPC, time as a non-political, non-governmental organization with a clear-cut objective of showcasing and promoting the good leadership qualities of General Muhammadu Buhari prior to him being elected as Nigerian president in 2015 general election”, he stated. “The National Executive Committee of Buhari Campaign Organization is in possession of a copy of a letter emanating from a sister Campaign Organization, Muhammadu Buhari Campaign Organization (MBCO) signed by the Director, Strategic Communication, Festus Keyamo, SAN on disclaiming BCO. “The reading public should disregard his publication because he is uninformed about Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO). It is on record that BCO has visited and has met with President Muhammadu Buhari and the First lady, Federal Republic of Nigeria”, he stated. Pasali advised that all Buhari campaign groups in the country need to harmonize our strengths so as to ensure that President Muhammadu Buhari is re-elected in 2019 February general election instead of engaging in rivalry and unhealthy competition. Buhari Campaign Organisation expected Festus Keyamo (SAN) to cross examine the facts and verify the genuineness of the purported letter from the leadership of ECG for guidance before rushing to the press. According to him, ” BCO stand for Integrity and abhors corruption. BCO is self-funding and our organization has not got any contract, funding from any government organization. “It is on record that Festus Keyamo was alleged to have collected N450 million few days ago published online by leaderNG which he refuted immediately. BCO believes that the allegation of N50 million is a wicked rumour because we believe in the Integrity of President Muhamadu Buhari and also that of Festus Keyamo. “If the opposition can do that level of damage to Festus Keyamo, how come he believed quickly in a purported letter fraudulently written on BCO letter head paper? “While Festus Keyamo is a new person in the Followership of President Muhammadu Buhari, he should expect more damaging allegations from the opposition now that full blown campaign will take off November 18, 2018 which will need a matured response.” 