The Lagos state government has applauded Dizegoff Nigeria on its capacity building initiative for farmers across the country and for the state in particular. The government also hailed Dizengoff for the steps it has continued to take in addressing farmers challenges thereby boosting agro production to ensure food security for Nigeria’s fast growing population. The commendation came recently during the presentation of product exhibition on ‘Mechanising Community Agriculture’ organised by the Lagos state’s Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs in collaboration with Dizengoff Nigeria. In his key note address at the event, Akeem Sulaimon, special adviser to the state governor on Communities and Communication, while commending Dizengoff, disclosed that the state government believes that educating and empowering of farmers in communities and rural areas in mechanized farming is vital to Nigeria’s economic growth and development. “Global agricultural development is driven by mechanisation. The best global mechanisation management practices are important in ensuring optimal agricultural production, better living standards, poverty reduction, rural – urban drift, tackling unemployment and youth restiveness in our communities,” Sulaimon said in a statement. “One of the policy thrust of the state government which recognizes that food security is important to the survival of the citizenry,” he added. The capacity building programme was a collaborative effort between the state and Dizengoff. It involves the training of farmers on good agricultural practices to improve their yield per hectare as well as on technical know-how of modern farming techniques. The program covered four areas of agriculture solutions where participants were enlightened on the use of modern agricultural machineries and implements, Greenhouse technology, irrigation solution, agrochemicals and consumables. Speaking during the event, Folu Padonu, permanent secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs while commending Dizengoff said that the partnership with the organization marks a revolution for community agriculture in the state. Tajudeen Quadri, senior special assistant to the Governor, said “I want to appreciate Dizengoff Nigeria for this collaboration and the passion for empowering farmers coupled with the introduction of new technologies which would lead to good agricultural delivery in the state in no distant future.” Speaking on behalf of Dizengoff, Antti Ritvonen, Dizengoff Nigeria CEO expressed delight at the opportunity to collaborate with the Lagos state government on the program. “As a company, we are excited to be able to share our technical know-how and quality service delivery, coupled with our many years of experience in providing agricultural solutions to the Nigerian farmer” Ritvonen said. He expressed strong optimism about the future of agriculture in the country which he said has very huge opportunity and strong potential to easily become self-sufficient in food production within a short time. He pledged Dizengoff’s readiness to work with the Lagos state government on how to rapidly transform the state’s agriculture and achieve food sufficiency. Participants in the program which was organized as a “train-the trainer” programme, were drawn from HODs of Agric and social Services, Agricultural Desk Officers in all the state’s 57 LGA/LCDAs. Other relevant stakeholders involved in mechanized based agricultural development also attended.