Barely 24 hours ahead of the All Progressives Congress, APC National Convention, Adebayo Shitu, Minister of Communications has headed to court to stop the Akin Oke led Oyo State Executive Committee of the party from participating in the National Convention.  The Shittu faction of the party had accused the faction loyal to the Oyo state governor, Abiola Ajimobi of not obtaining nomination and expression of interest forms and that as such, it was not qualified to contest in the last state congress.  According to the Minister’s campaign organisation, the Oke faction should not be allowed to participate in the convention.  A statement issued by the Director, Media and Strategy for Adebayo Shittu Campaign Organisation,  Saheed Oladele, said, “The Hon. Minister of Communications, Dr. Abdur-Raheem Adebayo Shittu FNCS) and Thirty Five (35) other aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State have, through their lawyer, A.U. Mustapha (SAN) & Co., instituted an action today, the 21st of June, 2018 at the Federal High Court, Abuja, seeking, inter alia, a declaration that the Court should declare null and void the State Congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It said this had led to the emergence of the Chief Akin Oke led State Executive of the APC, as same is void, having no foundation of a valid Ward and Local Government Area Congresses and also an Order of the Court restraining the Chief Akin Oke led State Executive of the APC from parading themselves as the validly elected Oyo State Executive Members of the APC and from participating in the forthcoming National Convention of the Party.  “The law firm of A.U. Mustapha (SAN) & Co., on the 21st June, 2018 wrote a letter to Chief John Odigie Oyegun (the National Chairman of the APC) notifying him of the pendency of the suit, adding that any attempt to recognise the said purported APC Oyo State Executives led by Chief Akin Oke in the forthcoming National Convention of the Party on Saturday, the 23rd June, 2018, would be an affront on the judiciary as same is now subjudice”, the statement read. 