Newly elected factional Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State, Godwin Etim John, has said that his faction remained the only authentic party exco recognised by the national leadership of the party. The former Chairman of Etung Local Government Area disclosed this while inaugurating the state exco members at the state party secretariat Barracks Road Calabar, Cross River State. He charged the party members to remain resolute and loyal to the party at all times to enable them win the presidential and governorship election in the country. “We are the party to beat; we will not be distracted; we must ensure that we deliver our president in 2019 and take over the Government House come 2019 in Cross River State. “Our leader, Pastor Usani Uguru Usani has done a lot of empowerment in Fisheries, Agriculture, Cassava, and Aqua-culture and has empowered many of our youths and women, a development that has not taken place before,” he said. Also speaking, the State Secretary of the party, Francis Ekpeyong said the situation is normal as aggrieved party members will be brought back as the interest of the party is upper most. “You see, everybody is working for our President and we will ensure that we carry everybody along,” he said. But some stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress in Cross River State last Sunday defied attempts by heavily armed, fierce-looking policemen to stop a rescheduled state congress of the chapter. The stakeholders were forced to change the advertised venue of the congress from Ikot Ansa Town hall in Calabar municipality to a project site within the premises of the University of Calabar Teaching Hospital where a retired permanent secretary in the state civil service, Mathew Achigbe was unanimously elected to lead a 36-man new state executive of the party. The congress was conducted by the national vice chairman of the party, South-South, Ntufam Hilliard Eta, who cited the constitutional provisions of the party that empowers him to attend to issues and address matters within the states under his purview as the National Vice Chairman.  MIKE ABANG, Calabar 