A front line presidential aspirant on the platform of the Social Democratic Party, SDP, Iyorwuese Hagher has asked the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC to expand its mandate to include prosecuting presidents who have failed in their campaign promises, starting with President Muhammadu Buhari. Hagher stated this Tuesday while delivering a talk on his manifesto at a meet-the-press occasion in Abuja. He charged the anti-corruption agency to prosecute presidents who have defaulted on the promises contained in their manifestoes as a deterrent to their successors. “Presidents with fraudulent manifestoes, should be prosecuted by the EFCC. Buhari’s manifesto for example, is a failed and fraudulent one. Nigerians were hoodwinked by that manifesto. “I have respect for the office of the president, but i must challenge the president’s manifesto. The person who wrote the manifesto of Buhari, should be in jail”, Hagher asserted. The former third Republic Senator advised the National Assembly to enact a law against bogus promises and failure of political office holders to meet their promises. Hagher regretted that even though the president promised to provide at least 20% of annual budgets for education, less than 7% of the budget was so far allocated to the sector. He lamented that Nigeria has a high number of 13 million children out of school at all levels, despite the glowing campaign promises of president buhari. According to the former Minister for Health, Nigeria is home to two of the deadliest terrorist groups in the world, despite the Buhari’s campaign promise to set up special courts, accelerate trials and jail terrorists, kidnappers and other criminals. “Nigeria as currently led by buhari is the most insecure place to be; it is riven along religious and ethnic lines. We do not even have a vision of where our country should be, so we have unenlightened self-interest, that’s why inspite of oil and other resources, we are still poor. ” We can’t be great, with our people being killed everyday. We must ask ourselves serious questions: how does a Nigerian child cross over to the other side of the world and succeeds, but almost always fails in Nigeria?”, the former Ambassador to Mexico and Canada queried. Hagher also lambasted the president for dumping  his campaign promise to sponsor a bill to the National Assembly to remove the immunity clause for elected officers. The Professor of Theatre Arts promised that his government, if voted into office in 2019, will provide over 26% funding for education, focus on youth employment, women empowerment and deepen democracy through a strict adherence to the rule of law. He asserted that to be great, Nigeria needs moral power and a moral code engendered through schools and faiths from a conscientious and highly literate leadership.