Nestlé’s MAGGI brand in line with its commitment to celebrate contemporary African cuisine has partnered with Google/YouTube and Shirley Frimpong-Manso Ghanaian award-winning film director and writer to introduce MAGGI Yelo Pèppè, an online nutrition education series. The weekly programme which will be available on the MAGGI YouTube channel will connect viewers to beloved African recipes dressed with a health twist, lifestyle discussion groups and nutrition tips. Dominique Allier, business executive officer for Culinary at Nestlé central and West Africa, said: “MAGGI is committed to promote homemade wholesome cooking with local ingredients. We want to connect with more than 10 million people on the importance of eating a nutritious diet, adopting healthy lifestyles and maintaining a sense of wellbeing”. The series illustrates how MAGGI is contributing to Nestlé’s purpose of “enhancing the quality of life and contributing to a healthier future “Nestlé is committed to enabling healthier and happier lives by offering tastier and healthier choices, inspiring people to lead healthier lives and building, sharing and applying nutrition knowledge” he said. The thirteen-week programme according to him will highlight the numerous challenges that modern African women face when trying to balance providing nutritious and healthy food for their family, with all the other demands of a modern life. MAGGI has been inspiring millions of women to use local ingredients to cook tasty meals for their families through its highly successful nutrition roadshows. With its Yelo Pèppè series, MAGGI is adopting a new and innovative way to connect with the modern consumers who are increasingly watching online video content. With the new original drama series, MAGGI sets out to show that healthy cooking can be exciting without having to compromise on taste. The programme will further restate the brand’s ‘Simply Good’ commitments announced in 2017, to improve the nutritional profile of its products, working on salt and sodium reduction; create more value for the society and the community by increasing local sourcing and contributing to the local economy; and to raise awareness and contribute to nutrition education about healthy lifestyles, cooking and diets.