A major effort to enhance customer interaction in the nation’s non-banking financial service sector, particularly insurance with technological innovation through artificial intelligence is about to be witnessed with the launch of a first of its kind Chatbot by Custodian Investment Group.  Custodian is taking advantage of this platform to present the first chatbot AI for an insurance  and non-banking financial services business in Nigerian (called Max), hoping to set a pace for the spread of this technology and its benefits in Nigeria locally and Africa at large.  Max will engage customers in dynamic conversation which enables greater levels of personalization to be archived and takes us down a path of performing automated underwriting and claims functions based on dynamic data rather than the rows and columns limitation of today’s actual spreadsheets.  Customers have something to be excited about in terms of engagement rather than just filling out a static web form online.  With Max, Custodian is positioned to exploit the rising role of machine learning technology (AI) in scaling for customer needs. Max operates on massager platforms like Facebook messenger, Telegram and its own web messenger platform to guide customers through a brief and simplify process to get insurance courage and other non-banking financial services.  Esomchi Nwofor, chief technology officer alongside her team said Customer care is at the heart of custodian, stating that it is the first in the non-banking financial services sector to come up with Artificial Intelligence to enable customers interact conveniently.  “We are aware of the challenges customers face in interaction with financial services companies, so all of these are geared towards bringing convenience and trust in insurance services, she said.  These will help create awareness, increase penetration by providing customers with self driven mobile application that enables them interact freely.   According to the Company, Chatbots remain instrumental to growth and transformation in the service industry. In an industry like the insurance industry for example, that already faces so many challenges in appealing to its customers, Chatbots helps to solve at least some of the bigger problems.  The Chatbot tech has been widely used in the global insurance industry for over a decade now. It has opened doors for the development of an automated insurance agent, available 24/7 to meet customer needs and respond to queries.  It has allowed insurance firms deploy distribution, claims and customer service straight into a messenger platform that has about 900 million users each month and supports about 60 billion messages every day.  