The new National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Adams Oshiomhole on Tuesday took over the leadership of the party from the immediate past National Chairman, John Oyegun. Oshiomhole was at the Weekend unanimously affirmed and also inaugurated as the new National Chairman of APC during the party’s National Convention. At the hand over ceremony which took place at APC National Secretariat, Abuja, the former Chairman, Oyegun presented hand over notes to Oshiomhole, inventory list, list of staff, minutes of the meetings of the National Working Committee during his tenure. In his hand over remarks, the former National Chairman who congratulated his successor and other National Executive Members of the party, expressed hope that with reelection of some members of the past leadership, the present administration would easily get clarifications if the need arises. “My duty today is brief, I thought. Just to introduce you basically to what is now your property. Your headquarters. Your building and our office and to go through the formality of the handover “I put everything important on paper here. I have a lot of attachment which include an inventory of everything in this building”, Oyegun stated. He wished the new APC leader and his team a successful tenure of office, saying with Oshiomhole pedigree, the party would grow from strength to strength and charged him to work hard for the party’s victory beginning with the July Ekiti Governorship election and the general elections. On his part, Oshiomhole vowed to build on the pace set by Oyegun who led the party to victory in 2015 and said he would be consulting the former Chairman for advice in running affairs of the party and appealed to him to always make his wealth of experience available for the progress of APC. He vowed that APC under his leadership would go beyond working for electoral victories but would focus on development issues, debates and full implementation of the ideals espoused in the party manifestoes. “Programmes embedded in our manifestoes must be constantly reviewed to ensure that they meet changing realities”. The former Edo State Governor stated that the party affairs under his reign would be conducted in line with its constitution and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria while party supremacy could not be arbitrary compromised. He said when organs in the party take decisions such as in the National Executive Council meeting and the “President violates or takes decision in contravention of the decision taken by NEC even the President can be accused of anti-party activities because it is a party decision”. The new APC National Chairman also informed the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP that he was ready for constructive criticism as demaned by its National Chairman, Uche Secondus. Oshiomhole who assured staff of the APC Secretariat of prioritizing their welfare held a maiden meeting with them shortly after the hand over ceremony.