It is another lovely weekend and we have picked some of the best books to keep you relaxed, entertained, inspired and motivated. See them below: The Night My Dead Girlfriend Called by Feyisayo Anjorin How do you feel when your girlfriend dies? And when you think it’s time to move on, you get a call form her? Well, Badoo found himself in that shoe. He kept receiving calls from his late girlfriend at bedtime, as was their routine while she was still alive What do these phone calls mean? And what will Badoo do? Well, it’s better you find out for yourself. Read it here.   Memoirs of a Lagos Wedding Planner by Tolulope Popoola Planning a wedding for months is no small joke, especially when the elites in the society will be attending. But, can you really plan in peace when the bride to be wouldn’t stop telling you how much her husband to be loves her, and how many years they’ve been dating? What if things actually don’t go as planned? Find out more in this wonderful book that explores relationships, marriage, finances, business and much more. Believe me, you will wonder why you didn’t read this earlier. Read it here   In the Shadows of Iyanibi by Euegen Odogwu When you’re different, you know it. Others know it too, but they don’t see your difference the way you do. A young girl makes friends with a strange animal. What’s more, she can talk to it. But the children in her neighborhood think she’s mad. They point fingers at her and laugh. “…who spends all their time talking to a bush baby?…” one of them asks. Find out what happens next in this adventurous and entertaining story. Read it here   The Wedding and Other Short Stories by Ufuomaee This collection of your soon to be favourite romantic short stories is delivered with inspiring messages for both singles and married. It also includes one real story from the author’s personal experience.
The stories in this collection includes: He Took My Breath Away, The Wedding, The Day My Heart Broke, The Dream That Became A Nightmare, The Hard Road To Forgiveness, She Made Love Again, and, The Queen That I Am. You can read all of them, here. 