Lawrence Okpako, a sales expert has launched RewardsNG, an online marketplace where people can sell, buy, refer other people and make money. The ecommerce firm is designed to empower students in higher institutions, entrepreneurs, the unemployed and underemployed, housewives, and anyone who desires to earn additional income. ‘‘We intend to empower people through this platform. We see ourselves as a reward and empowerment company,’’ said Okpako, CEO, RewardsNG. ‘‘We don’t just want to make money; we also want to touch lives. We not only buy and sell, but we have also created a reward,’’ he said. Some of the products on RewardsNG include airtime and data, tickets such as flight booking, electricity bill payment, fashion, groceries, cargo and shipping, television and cable, professional services such as laundry, amongst others. ‘‘We have four free pickup centres in Lagos for those who do not want to pay for N1,000 door-to-door delivery fee. We tend to extend it to other cities,’’ the CEO said. ‘‘The consumer picks the closest pickup centre for delivery. We have over 50,000 products and services available.’’ Consumers are very sensitive about pricing but the RewardsNG boss assures that their product prices are pocket friendly when compared to others. ‘‘We did a lot of research and we tried to make sure our prices are very competitive,’’ he said. ‘‘We are confident that what we have is good enough to present to the public.’’ A lot of people have trust issues when it comes to using their cards to shop online but Okpako said they have taken care of. ‘‘We have created multiple payment options for those who do not want to pay with their cards,’’ he said. On the issue of complaints of fake and substandard products retailed online, RewardsNG CEO said their partners are vetted and carefully selected. ‘‘Any partner that wants to join our platform is subject to our quality control check because our trademark is our solution. We have quality standards that we have set for ourselves to make sure the items are genuine,’’ he said. ‘‘We have a screening section. If we are not satisfied, the product will not be listed on the platform.’’ Okpako invites people to visit the website to start shopping, referring people and earning money. ‘‘At RewardsNG, every transaction made earns the person a free cashback. The person earn cash in his/her wallet and we also reward the person with points,’’ he said. ‘‘The more transactions the person makes, the more money he/she will make as well.’’