As curtain falls on the 2nd All Progressive Congress ( APC) two day national elective convention, in Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari has appealed to winners to be “humble in victory” The President who stated this while making his closing remarks at the end of the convention, also called on losers to be gracious and gallant in defeat “Let the victors be humble in victory, and let those who didn’t win be also gallant and gracious in defeat. “We are members of one party, and it is not about winners takes all. Rather, the purpose is to build a party that would put its best foot forward, and serve our country to the best of its ability. He commended the resilience and tenacity of spirit as well as the patience of delegates who remained at the Eagles square venue of the two days event despite the bad weather condition that prevailed through out the convention. According to him, “ You were all here through the raw weather that persisted from yesterday till today, but you bore it patiently. You persevered through the night, and deep into another day. Thank you very much. The President had in his opening speech charged all APC members to put party interest above personal interests The President, while congratulating the aspirants who for the common good, had to shelve personal ambition, and stood down for others they were to have contended with, also saluted  those who went the whole way, contested, were voted for, and who emerged victorious, or otherwise. “  I salute the patience, forbearance, and spirit of accommodation that has been on display, as we held elections to fill positions in our National Working Committee (NWC) and National Executive Committee”he said He noted that everything was done in an atmosphere of give and take, knowing that in such contest, only one person would ultimately win. “At the end of all proceedings, I believe we have put in place an executive that we all can be proud of, one that would lead our party from victory to victory, from progress to progress, and one that Nigerians can be proud of. He also commended members of the immediate past executive, led by John Odigie Oyegun, for their selfless service to our party, and urge them to always lend the wisdom of their experience to the new executive members. “Together, we will all build a cohesive party, that will do our country a world of good. As you all return to your destinations, I pray that God almighty will take you safely home. “In our country, not only the labour of our heroes past shall not be in vain. “The labor of the current generation shall also be rewarded. APC will serve Nigeria to the best of our God given abilities, and move our country to its right position in the comity of nations.” he said