You can read these books at night or postpone it till the weekend. The books selected for today are books written by Nigerians. The characters in these romance books are the most entertaining you have ever had. See them below: Haunted by Kiru Taye How do you cope with a dead husband who insists on making love to you every night? Worse, how do you get rid of him? When he was alive, he loved her. When he died his love turned to cravings and nights of sexual exploits, so much so, his wife almost believed he wasn’t dead. Somma and David were in love and happily married until David was killed in a tragic accident. Somma is heartbroken, and even a year after David’s death she is struggling to move on, especially since she swears he is haunting her dreams. Things get worse when friends convince her to get David’s possessions out. David is not ready to let go of his wife. Will she be able to fight off her dead husband? Find out here.    Naked Attraction ~ A Sweet & Sexy Romance by Stella Eromonsere-Ajanaku A dangerous attraction…is mounting ~ They say women are moved by what they hear, but men are moved by what they see. Sometimes you can be an innocent woman minding your own business, but then, a man sees you and an attraction is built. But what if that woman is actually way out of your league? Replaying her hip-wriggling dance steps in his head, Mofe is desperately searching for the dancer he saw in a beach club in Europe. None of the people he asks seem to recall who she is, not even the beach club owner. However, when he walks into the city’s courtroom and his eyes falls on the female District Judge presiding over his brother’s case, he knows he has found the elusive dancer. Now his brother’s freedom or jail sentence rests in her hands. Ronke is ladened with the responsibility of caring for her little sister and it takes up most of her free time. However, she knows how to juggle work with having a good time, which includes traveling abroad and dancing on bar tables. The moment Ronke locks gaze with the dark, gorgeous man with rippling muscles and tattooed arms, a dangerous attraction sizzles inside her. With no plans to forgo her current no-strings secret affair, she disappears without a trace, hoping never to see the stranger again. But when he walks into her courtroom, her stomach walls tighten and she can barely breathe. Can Mofe convince a woman who holds the key to his brother’s future to date him? And will Ronke deny her attraction to protect her reputation? You should find out here   An Emotional Affair by Ufuomaee Have you ever been in a relationship but due to neglect from your partner, you feel you’re no different from being single? Well, this is exactly the situation Lola finds herself. Lola is a neglected wife who feels neglected and as such, constantly wonders if her husband still loves her. She wishes he was more romantic, she wishes he could even create time for her, for them. She wishes he’d be as he was with her when they were courting. But Bolu isn’t deliberately trying to be a bad husband. He is a busy Lawyer who is trying his best to provide for his home. After losing a chance at a promotion, he works double hard to prove that he has what it takes to make Senior Partner at his firm. Danny on the other hand is a rich man with nothing but time and money to spend on Lola. He provides for her, the things she actually wants from her husband. He actually doesn’t care if she’s married. All he wants is to take advantage of her needs and the emptiness of her marriage. All through this read, you’ll keep asking three questions Find out here  Strange Man at Iri by Karo Oforofuo Valerie Ete has lost everything she ever held close to her heart. Since she clocked 18, along with her twin brother, one unfortunate event after the other seemed to follow her about. First, it is the death of her parents, loss of inheritance to greedy relatives, then rape, after rape. And when she wouldn’t take the abuse anymore, she does the unthinkable. She fights back, wickedly. After committing murder, one cannot expect to be backed by the law. The police will lock her up. Or the mob might kill her first without listening to any explanation for her wicked act. Valerie takes off, leaving Warri in an evening bus for Lagos. But again, another unfortunate event takes place, and instead of Lagos, she finds herself lost in a thick jungle. In this jungle, she would meet and fall in love with the man who holds the key to her heart,  she would fight a sorceress that wants her dead at all cost, and she would defend a family she never knew she had. Read this paranormal romance novel here.  