Acting President Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday formerly met the new Acting Director General of the Department of State Security, Matthew Seiyefa at the Presidential Villa, Abuja alongside Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu. The Acting President also held closed door meetings with the Governors of Kano, Ibrahim Ganduje, Kebbi, Atiku Bagudu, Zamfara, who is the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum NGF, Abdulaziz Yari. Details of the meetings were not given as at press time, as all the meetings held behind closed doors But Governor Yari while speaking with State House Correspondents after meeting with the Acting President, condemned the freezing of Benue State government account and promised to do something on his capacity as Chairman of the NGF to address the issue. “The freezing of any account of the state government whether Benue or anywhere is unconstitutional and is not right. That is shutting down government” Citing security exigencies, Yari said “government must spend, most especially Benue that is facing insecurity challenges” “Well, we don’t know why the EFCC took the action. But if indeed EFFC froze the account, from my point of view, it is wrong.” He reiterated that the government of President Muhammadu Buhari will not sit down and oversee unlawful operation from the security agencies, citing the example of the sacking of the former DG DSS, Lawal Daura. “From what happened yesterday, everyone can understand that this government is following due process and the laws of Nigeria. For one to just send security agencies to shut down the National Assembly, and the action that followed, that is what gave credit to this government from local and international community” “Similar thing had happened in 2011 and 2014respectively, but nothing was done about it, this time around, government said enough is enough. “But the government of Muhammadu Buhari is following due process and will never oversee an unlawful activity by any security agency. So in the case of Benue, I believe something must be done.”
Ganduje while also speaking on the issue, stated that he did not have the facts as it is a “ security issue”, adding that “ I do not want to look stupid by commenting on what l do not have the facts”
He however condemned the Tuesday siege on the National Assembly
It will be recalled that the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, on Wednesday said it has frozen the account of the Benue State government, a development that was confirmed by Terver Akase, the Chief Press Secretary to Governor Samuel Ortom
The state government see the development as an “evil agenda to cripple the state, adding that “ it is only in Benue that the EFCC is probing the security vote of the governor.”  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 