The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria United Kingdom, an international branch of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) is planning to open discussion on how regulatory changes in the financial industry can be addressed. This is against the backdrop of the fact that an onslaught of complex and broad ranging regulations has affected the global banking industry—with more to come. In view of this, the CIBN UK has concluded arrangements to hold the 1st Nigerian international Bankers Conference on The Challenges of Regulatory Changes and De-Risking scheduled to hold in London, United Kingdom from, August 30, 2018 to, September 1, 2018. High-performing banks are expected to view this as an opportunity to create competitive differentiation. The right strategic regulatory response can lead beyond survival to profitable growth in the new environment. Distinguished faculty to facilitate the event include; Aishah N. Ahmad, Deputy Governor, Financial Systems Stability Directorate, CBN; John Turnbull, Director, Certis International; Clive Carpenter Vice President, Business Council for Africa; Noline Matemera, Partner, TLT LLP; Stuart Mc Bride Partner, TLT LLP; Jason Cropper, Partner, TLT LLP; Ian Burgess, Principal, Technology and Digital Uk Finance; Paul Gair, Partner, TLT LLP; Brain Craig Legal Director, TLT LLP; Mduduzi Mswabuki, Partner , Ernst and Young While Uche Olowu, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN would give the keynote address. According to the organizers, the Conference provides another unique opportunity to partner with other forward looking organizations and stakeholders in the financial system within Nigeria and Africa, including global financial leaders across the globe. The event would also provide a veritable platform for networking opportunities among participants across the globe. The 1st Nigerian international Bankers Conference is indeed a step in the right direction as we all strive towards making the Nigeria’s financial services industry globally competitive. Expected participants at the event include members of delegates from regulatory bodies in banking and finance and other allied sectors, Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), Academics, Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), and other relevant stakeholders in the Nigerian Finance Sector. 