As part of its global Customer Appreciation Week, beverage giants Coca-Cola Nigeria, will host the second edition of its annual Customer appreciation golf tournament, to celebrate and acknowledge its loyal customers across Nigeria. The golf tournament will be held across 3 cities (Lagos, Ibadan and Abuja), and will be attended and contested by key stakeholders, distributors, customers and media; with 6 winners emerging from the well contested 18 hole tournament for customers. The winners will travel on an all-expense paid trip to Mauritius to participate in the AfrAsia Mauritius Open Pro-AM tournament in November. “We are conscious of the role strategic customer relationship plays in any successful business enterprise and how it delivers a huge boost to any company’s competitive advantage. The Customer Appreciation Week is in line with our vision to collaborate and appreciate partners, inspiring moments of optimism and happiness using customer activities and rewarding engagements”. Head of Public Affairs and Communications, Coca-Cola Nigeria, Nwamaka I. Onyemelukwe. “We started this tournament in Lagos State about a year ago, to appreciate our customers and we got a lot of positive reviews. This year, we have expanded the tournament to three cities; Abuja, Ibadan and Lagos and we are happy to sponsor six winners to Mauritius as a result”. Commenting further, Mrs Elizabeth Abiodun-Toki, Managing Director, Datof Golden Heritage Limited highlighted the importance of the event to key customers like her. “Coca-Cola continues to show us their immense gratitude. I have been a distributor of Coca-Cola since 1989 and they will always have my support. I am very proud of Coca-Cola for their growth over the years. My hope is that the company continues to host exciting events like this and we look forward to having a bigger and better competition in the coming years.” Coca-Cola continues to take several steps in strengthening its presence in the Nigerian market. The Customer Appreciation is one of the many ways to express gratitude to customers across the country. The Customer Appreciation Week that started many years ago, is a unique period when service organizations and global agencies extol the patronage and loyalty of their esteemed customers by introducing several unique and special activities to appreciate them. It is celebrated annually and has grown into a global event.  Anthony Nlebem 