As part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR), Nigeria’s oldest indigenous accounting firm, Deliotte,  this weekend concluded its Young Impact Makers (YIM) aimed at tapping into younger talents by exposing them to the corporate world. The programme is targeted at exposing the young to Deloitte’s business and culture, core values and learning interventions, including hands-on blended learning activities, mentoring sessions, on-the-job business management skills training, and social activities to enhance their personal development. According to Anthony Olukoju, chief operating officer for Deliotte, the programme is part of the firm’s CSR in building up the future of millennial in the society. “The YIM programme is another way we are making impact in our society, by giving promising students early exposure and mentorship. We as a firm, our goal is to make impact on our people, our client and our society. It is Deloitte’s way of shaping the future”. “Looking at what is happening in our society today, we in Deliotte felt there is a need to reach out to the younger generation and that was why we came up with the programme to bring them together, expose them to the corporate world, network them with their peers and use the opportunity to promote co-habitation among youths in the country.” The 2018 YIM programme featured best five students each, selected from different regions across the country (Ondo, Anambra, Lagos, Abuja and Kaduna), who were giving a two-week training on Tax, Audit, Consulting, Finance, Information Technology, Financial and risk advisory services. Olukoju noted that the firm would track the performance of the students until they were out from the university, and would be giving an opportunity to start a career in the firm if they come out outstanding. “What we are doing is to impact our society and also see how we can support the younger generation who we see as the leaders of tomorrow.” The firm makes entire funding of the programme and have no plans making money from it but giving back to the society as we want to help the society to train these leaders of tomorrow, help them to appreciate what it takes to be a thorough breed professional, he said. YIM is an intensive programme for high school/college students, designed to expose them. The knowledge and skills gained from the immersion help to propel the students to take the lead in their chosen future careers. 