Microsoft has created a new subsidiary, the Middle East and Africa (MEA) multi-country cluster (MCC) to cater for the full African continent (except South Africa and Egypt), the Indian Ocean Island, Levant and Pakistan. According to the company, this new subsidiary was created with a focus to rightly position itself for cloud growth across the region. Microsoft which enables digital transformation for the era of an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge, a few weeks ago, appointed Ibrahim Youssry to head the MEA Multi Country Cluster as the General Manager. Akin Banuso, country manager of Microsoft Nigeria welcomed Youssry’s appointment saying that, “the establishment of MCC under Ibrahim’s leadership, allows us to more closely align across growth markets to further deliver on our vision of digital transformation, while enabling partners. I look forward to working with Ibrahim and the MCC team, not only to drive our customer’s success but also to invest in digital skills building and youth upliftment in Nigeria”. Youssry brings over thirty years of professional experience and industry knowledge to the role. Having joined Microsoft in 2007 in the server and tools business, which he managed across most of Africa and Levant, Yousry progressed to become the General Manager of Microsoft West Central Africa in 2008. Holding his position for four years, Youssry led growth across the region, overseeing every aspect of Microsoft’s business and being awarded the Microsoft global “General Manager of the Year” award in 2009. In 2011, Youssry moved to Microsoft France, leading an extensive government business covering ministries, social and administrative entities and large public-private accounts, and in November 2013, he moved back to the MEA region and joined Microsoft Gulf as the Public Sector lead. Microsoft acknowledges that Ibrahim Youssry has made an enormous impact in the market supporting government and education organisations to accelerate their digital transformation agendas and growing the Microsoft public-sector business significantly. Prior to joining Microsoft, Youssry spent many years working in multinational organisations across different sectors including Aramco, GUPCO and Schlumberger in the oil and gas industry, Gemalto and Orascom “Djezzy” in the Telco space.  