We love to make a statement with our hair styles which may range from the simple to the exotic and sometimes complex with admirers often left wondering at the dexterity of the style. However, the primary goal of hair styling is convenience as this allows women to look good for longer periods without having to visit the hair stylist regularly. Styles are often worn for two weeks to four months at a stretch depending on individual preferences. In African and indeed Nigerian women, hair styling remains the largest cause of preventable hair loss especially when it is accompanied by unhealthy practices. A commonly used phrase is “protective styling” which means styling the hair in a manner that protects against hair loss. Common protective styles include braiding, using weaves and wigs, and wearing the hair in a bun or ponytail. Protective styling can become destructive if there is damage to the hair strands and hair follicles. This is often noticeable within the first few hours after installation of a new hair style. Can you relate to your hair being pulled so tightly by the stylist so that it will be “fine and neat” that you cannot move your neck for the first few hours after you are done, being unable to sleep for a few days, or having to take pain killers, and “press” your scalp with hot water? On close examination of the hair around the hairline, there may be swelling and small red “pimple-like” bumps. Under these circumstances, the hair will most likely be pulled off because of the tight style and this is what leads to traction alopecia. Young children have DELICATE hair follicles and may be forced by their parents to make unsuitable styles such as using attachment, fixing weaves and sometimes even using hair glue/ bond. These cause excessive pulling of the scalp, damage the hair follicles and often result in permanent hair loss. The reasons why parents choose unsuitable styles for their kids are largely due to ignorance as they want styles that last hence the addition of attachments and extensions; they also desire that their girls look good. More women today desire a sleek, laid, and natural look and a seamless finish to hair styling and  hair glue/ bonds are used, especially for  human hair weaves and lace wigs. The glue is commonly applied to the edges and these areas suffer the greatest damage. Apart from the fact that some women have allergies to the latex in the glue which can react with the hair follicles and cause the hair to fall off, the take-down usually involves pulling off the weave and in the process, hair is forcibly pulled out and the hair follicles are damaged, sometimes permanently too. Another destructive hair practice is applying relaxer and braiding or fixing on the same day. Even though it may sound convenient, the potential for damage is doubled as the hair is weakened both by the relaxer and the attachment. It is advisable to wait for 2 weeks after a retouch before installing a hairstyle. Use of excessive direct heat on the hair such as flat irons and blow drying at high temperatures are also a major but subtle cause of hair loss. The intense heat damages and dries out the hair and causes breakage. It is healthy to air dry the hair or use warm air occasionally. You know how it is when you see a sizzling hair style that seems to be calling your name and screaming ‘make me’? I know, I have been there. Before you answer that call, examine the style critically to ensure that neither your hair strands nor your scalp will be compromised. If you have a favourite hairstyle you also want to ensure that you do not repeat it back to back to avoid sustained tension to one part of your scalp.  Visit only stylists who practice HEALTHY hairstyling, this can be a major game changer in your protective styling. The adage “Beauty is pain” is not true when it comes to hair styling. Keep it simple, safe, painless while achieving the slayed look.  Agility U. Obi-Ihesie 