Akwa Ibom state government, Udom Emmanuel is seeking a second term in office to enable him complete all the ongoing projects and to “concretise the industrialisation agenda he initiated.”  Emmanuel who was first elected in 2015 is expected to make his formal declaration of intent on Friday at an event scheduled to hold at the Godswill Akpabio international stadium.  Speaking in Uyo,  the Akwa Ibom State capital , Onofiok Luke who is the chairman,  central planning committee of the governor’s second term declaration said the first term of the governor has been marked with quality leadership and superior performance adding that the five-point agenda of the state government had been pursued vigorously.  “We have been fortunate to have been led by people who envisioned, inspired, and worked assiduously towards the actualisation of our collective greatness and the leadership of Governor Udom Emmanuel is not an exception,’’ he said.  According to him, three years ago, the people enthroned justice, fairness, equity and peace when they voted a candidate from Eket Senatorial District as the Governor of Akwa Ibom State pointing out they refused all insinuations to the contrary and unanimously “endorsed that a template of each elected Governor completing two terms of eight years be maintained without any selfish alteration.”  Luke who is also the speaker of the state house of assembly said the re-election bid  has been fuelled by the massive support of the people across the different local governments and senatorial districts of the state maintaining that no one part of “our state, no one senatorial district, not even the political class alone can produce a governor single-handedly.”  He called on the people to give their support by voting for the governor to enable him win a second term in office which according to him would usher in a new era of development in the state.   Speaking also, Idongesit Nkanga, former military governor of the state said thought the state government has embarked on many projects across the state, the 13 percent derivation being paid to oil producing states was not enough saying for equity and fairness true federalism should be adopted in the governance of the country.  “We are asking for federalism, the governor is will equipped, he has created industries. We are pleading that he should go for a second term,’’ he said.