Some Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains in Kogi State have called for the cancellation of the just concluded House of Representatives bye-election into the vacant Lokoja/Kogi Federal Constituency seat. The stalwarts under the aegis of PDP Stakeholders in Kogi State and Concerned Elders Forum, alleged that the exercise was marred with gross irregularities. Addressing a press conference in Abuja on Sunday, PDP Chairman in Kogi State, Sam Ohuetu, argued that the cancellation of 19,760 registered votes from 17 polling units could have swayed the votes in favour of the party. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared the All Progressives Congress (APC) winner of the poll, having garnered 26,860 votes as against 14,845 polled by PDP. Ohuetu also called for the prosecution of government officials seen at various polling units on the Election Day, for various electoral offences. He accused them of votes buying, ballot box snatching, unleashing violence and harassing electorates at different wards on the date of the Election. “They include: Senator Smart Adeyemi. Mr. Edward Onoja, Hon. Mattew Kolawole to mention a few. “The State Government had mapped out areas and apportioned territories within the Federal Constituency to its key officials, who would lead these thugs like battalion commanders to the polling units within their “territories” and words in a bid to unleash terror, coerce the electorates, snatch ballot boxes and rig the election in favour of the Government and the Ruling Party’s Candidate. Chief amongst whom are Mr. Edward Onoja, Chief of Staff to the Governor, who supervised the violence and rigging in Ward A, Senator Smart Adeyemi who supervised the unscrupulous activities in Word B, Hon. Kolawole Mattew who mobilized armed thugs and hoodlums to Obajana and other parts of Oworo Land. All these persons are not voters in the Federal Constituency neither were they indigenes thereof, they had no business in the Constituency on the day of the election, their actions and presence was in flagrant breach of the Electoral Act 2010(as amended). “In most of the Voting Centres, the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Edward Onoja was seen in an army of about 50 armed men, consisting of Mobile Policemen, “Special Thugs of the State” and dangerously armed thugs, going around. molesting, harassing, terrorizing and shouting that the Electorate should vote for the APC Candidate, and that whether they Voted for the APC Candidate or not, the APC would win. At these voting centres and under the supervision of the Chief of Staff to the Governor, who had the blessings and co-operation of INEC and the Security operatives, Ballot Papers were snatched away and taken to the Government House and other designated vote manipulation centres for thumb printing and returned to Independent National Electoral Commission for collation, recording and announcement,” the PDP Chairman said. He said the party would soon petition the Commission on the issues. 