The Federal government has said that 165 more Nigerians stranded in Libya will return home as adequate arrangements have been made to receive them today at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos. Charge’ the Affairs (Entitre) of Nigeria to Libya, Alex Kefas, made this known while briefing reporters at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Thursday, stressing that 109 of the this batch of returnees were among those captured in the video that went viral, some months ago about the dehumanizing conditions of the Nigerians being sold into slavery in the war-torn North African country. The returnees will be welcomed home by officials of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) and others. The Nigerian envoy noted that so far, the Federal Government despite the difficulties has returned 3,801 Nigerians adding that the country will remain resolute in the efforts being made to ensure that every Nigerian is brought back to the country as ordered by President Muhammadu Buhari. He lamented that 1,700 Nigerians that could be accessed had been confirmed to be languishing in jails scattered across Libya adding that some of them in far-flung places within the country could not be reached, which suggests that the number could be higher. He said however, that the federal government is making adequate arrangement to tackle that challenge. On the efforts being made to return Libya to normalcy, the Nigerian envoy expressed optimism that the general election scheduled for December 10 in Libya may hold as all the warring factions have reached agreement in the French capital Paris in May and pledged their commitments to the election. He said “we hope that the election will take place for the peace of Libya and the peace of Africa.” Libya was one of Africa’s stable and prosperous countries until 2011, when the oil-rich nation degenerated into a rebellion against long- time dictator, Muammar Gadhafi. Gadhafi was captured and killed by the rebels but the country has been divided as desperate armed groups battle to control the soul of the country. This chaotic situation led to the lawlessness and the country became a haven for all manner of crime including human trafficking and modern day slavery where Nigerians and nationals of other sub-saharan Africa countries were sold for paltry sums of money in debilitating circumstances, which sparked global outrage after it was exposed by a foreign media.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja 