Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State has described the change of leadership in the State House of Assembly as another process for strengthening internal democracy, stressing that, “The leadership change shows how Kano, as a state, is serious about internal democracy.” “Being an issue of internal democracy, that was why it took place smoothly without any fracas on the floor of the House. It is indeed a smooth change. As a veteran with legislative issues, I know this will further strengthen our internal democracy,” he noted. He also advised the new leadership of the House to carry all along in the discharge of their duties, emphasising that, “I am advising you that there should be no faction in the House. Mr. Speaker and other Principal Officers, you are aware how carrying all along can boost our great party.” The state government, Ganduje assures, would have good synergy with the legislative house. “We will work together for the development of the state. We will also work together as partners in progress,” he stated. Governor Ganduje appreciates the new Speaker’s statement when he said they would always support President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid and that of the governor. “I am happy that you are solidly behind our great party, the state government, behind me, behind President Muhammadu Buhari, behind the national leadership of our great party and also behind our re-election bid,” he said. In his remarks, the new Speaker, Kabiru Alasan Rurum, reveals that, “We are here Your Excellency, to pay homage to you. We are solidly behind you and all government activities. We are loyal card-carrying members of our great party, All Progressives Congress (APC).” Rurum reminded that, “Your Excellency, we have been with you for many years, long before now. We were with you even before you were elected as the governor of Kano State. In fact, we were in the forefront when we fought for your nomination to become the gubernatorial flag bearer. We also contributed immensely to win the election.” “Nobody can use us against you sir. No shaking! Our loyalty is undivided and is built on very strong foundation. We are also assuring you that, no member of our party, the APC will move to any other party. We shall remain in the party. And even those who decamped to PDP, we will bring back some of them into our fold,” stated the new Speaker. Rurum assured that they were solidly behind the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari and that of governor Ganduje in next year’s general election.  Adeola Ajakaiye, Kano 