Members of organised private sector comprising companies, professionals and organisations across different industries have started moves to checkmate the estimated N9 billion post-harvest annual losses of perishable foods in the country. The OPS under the aegis of the Organisation for Technology Advancement of Cold Chain in West Africa, OTACCWA wants to ensure that the nation reduces the huge post-harvest losses through the integration of Cold Chain system in Nigeria’s agricultural value chain. It is also calculated that out of the colossal N9 billion post-harvest losses, about 50 % of it is recorded for fruits and vegetables. It is said that despite remarkable progress in food production in the country, successive governments had not adequately identified and addressed the challenge of post-harvest value chain and the importance of functional cold chain agricultural development. The determination to ensure food security in Nigeria and reduce agricultural wastages therefore necessitated the formation of OTACCWA which will also cover other West African countries. “We have observed that one of the major causes of post-harvest losses in the agricultural and pharmaceutical sector is lack of adequate cold chain facility and this organization has been put together to ensure that cold chain sector is integral part of the economic and agricultural development agenda of Nigeria”, the President of the organization, Augustine Okoruwa told BusinessDay at the unveiling of the body in Lagos recently. He strongly believed that with cold chain there will be sustainable food security and improved nutrition in Nigeria and the rest of W/Africa. According to Okoruwa, Cold Chain is a sine qua non for handling perishable foods to deliver the nutritious content that is full of nutrients that human being needs. “This encompasses perishable commodities, fresh food and vegetables, berry, meat, poultry, sea food and pharmaceutical products that require cold chain like vaccines” The president who spoke in company of other stakeholders in the cold chain business, regretted that at the moment, the cold chain sector is nascent and it is latent in terms of deploying its total benefits. “We have therefore put together this association to ensure that all stakeholders and players that are involved in cold chain development system come together in one umbrella body to deliver and render services that will meet specific needs”, he said. Okoruwa said the organization will comprise research and academia, private sector technology providers, cold room builders and insulation panel builders, professional association and there will be alignment with international couching organisations that deliver services to ensure that perishable foods are not wasted. He said the decision to inaugurate the body as advocacy group came after the last Cold Chain Summit in 2017 where it was agreed by all participants that there was need for a coalition to proactively take steps in defining the statistics and proposing the solutions to reduce the staggering post-harvest losses in Nigeria. Also speaking, the secretary of the organization, Alex Isong said the body will work with government to formulate policy for cold chain business in Nigeria so that there will be regulatory body that knows what to do when it comes to cold chain business. “As it is there is no structured regulatory framework for cold chain in Nigeria. When cold chain is formally integrated, Nigeria will be able to save more produce and export others”, he said.  Daniel Obi 