The Deputy Governor of Kano State, Hafiz Abubakar, has resigned his position as the gale of resignations and defections sweep across Nigeria’s political landscape. Mr. Abubakar, a close political associate of former governor of Kano State, Rabiu Kwankwaso, said he resigned his position due to “irreconcilable differences on matters relating to governance and government operations, personal opinion and respect for democratic ideals and values.”
People close to the politician say he is on the verge of defecting to the opposition PDP where his mentor and associate Rabiu Kwankwaso has relocated to.
A copy of his resignation letter made available to the media showed that the resignation letter has been forwarded to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje.
In it, the former deputy governor said it would be unfair to his conscience and to the people of Kano to remain in his position as deputy governor of Kano state.
According to him, “Your Excellency would recall several instances I had to draw your attention on the need to understand and appreciate these differences in order to avoid drifting into the kind of unnecessary crisis we are facing today, but to no avail. Instead of heeding to my counsel to save the government from the present state of crises, your reaction was and still is, to prosecute and mete all sort of injustices on me.
“I have endured immeasurable and unjustifiable humiliation for over two and half years without any reason other than my principled position on issues of governance and the desire to keep government on track. Under circumstances, and given the deteriorating state of affairs and your continued disrespect for the office of the deputy governor as well as your expression of several injustices on my person, I regret to say that I have no option than to succumb to my inner calling with the hope that this decision is in accordance with the guidance and wishes of Allah (SWT) for me and good people of Kano state,” the letter said.
It was unclear whether Mr Ganduje has accepted the resignation. 