The Digital Satellite Television’s (DSTV) subscription rate paid by Nigerians even after the rate hike is the lowest rate charged by MultiChoice in Africa.  When BusinessDay analysed the subscription rate charged by the Sub-Saharan African direct broadcast satellite service, the rate given to Nigerians across its various packages on the platform was the least compared to what its African counterparts also pay for the same products.  Meanwhile, in July, MultiChoice raised the subscription rate for the DSTV Premium package from N14,700 to N15,800. This is lower than South Africa’s R809 (N21,228) and Ghana’s GHC368 (N27,360) for the same package.  The Compact Plus package was also increased in Nigeria from N9,900 to N10,650. South Africa and Ghana pays R509 (N13,670) and  GH245 (N18,365) for the same product respectively. The DSTv Compact package in the period under review was increased from N6,300 to N6,800, in Nigeria as against R385 (N10,340), GHc 149 (11,169) paid by both South Africa and Ghana.  A customer by the name Ola said “why does DSTv keep increasing prices every year, they should be able to explain to their customers the reason why.” The Family packaged which was increased from N3,800 to N4,000 in Nigeria is also lower than what South Africa and Ghana pays for the product at R249 (N6,687) and GHC85 (N6,371) respectively. The Access package subscription rate in Nigeria which was up from N1,900 to N2,000 is less than South Africa’s R99 (N2,656).  Responding to the rate hike, Uche Eze, a Nigerian customer to the South African company  said “cost of doing business in Nigeria keeps increasing and you expect DSTV to just absorb the cost? Because they are not in business to make profit?”  “DSTV is a business providing service to customers, while operating in a harsh environment, if their operating expenses increase, they have to raise prices. If as a customer you are dissatisfied, cancel your subscription and subscribe to Netflix or startimes,” another customer by name Ugo joy said. Meanwhile, the Consumer Protection Council (CPC), the apex consumer protection agency in Nigeria established to improve the well-being of the people raised alarm over the hike in subscription which took effect from the 1st of August 2018.  The CPC had argued that it has a constitutional responsibility to protect the welfare and interest of consumers in Nigeria through the instrumentality of the “the Council” established pursuant to Consumer Protection Council Act (CPCA) Cap. C25, LFN 2004. It said that in the exercise of its statutory mandate, the Council was conducting an investigation into Defendant/Respondent’s compliance with its Orders of February 16, 2016 and other emergent issues relating to whether Defendant/Respondent’s business practices and specific conducts were in violation of the law with respect to the rights of consumers. The conducts under review include: alleged unfairness, arbitrariness and excessiveness of pricing and billing systems. A customer who pleaded anonymity said “TSTV announced a resumption of their services on Mondya 20th. In the afternoon, reports broke that CPC had obtained a court order restraining DSTV from increasing prices, could this be a coincidence?” However, a Federal High Court sitting in Maitama, Abuja, restrained MultiChoice Nigeria Limited from implementing its recent increase in DStv subscription rates. On Monday, 20th August 2018, Justice NNamdi Dimgba granted an injunction restraining the video entertainment and Internet Company from implementing the new rates. The court also restrained MultiChoice from any conduct capable of interfering with the regulatory process of CPC.  Meanwhile, MultiChoice in Botswana also issued a court order restraining the subscription rate in the country and this was almost the same day the company’s price increase was restrained in Africa’s most populous nation. A landmark ruling by a Gaborone High Court granted the Botswana Communications Regulatory Authority (BOCRA) the right to regulate price increases by MultiChoice Botswana. Analysis by BusinessDay showed that citizens in countries like Namibia, South Africa, Zambia and Zimbabwe are also subjected to yearly increases by MultiChoice despite believing that the increases are not worth the channels that the company offers. In Botswana, MultiChoice (the local operator of DStv) is still not regulated and also in other Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries . Some of the customers of MutiChoice see this as the leverage that gives the South African owned company ammunition to increase its prices at will. 