Agrikexpo , Africas premium expo for agro-food products and services has collaborated with the Federation of Agricultural Commodity Associations Of Nigeria (FACAN) to transform the country’s agriculture through its upcoming agribusiness event. According to Victor Iyama, national president, FACAN, the association is determined to foster harmonised level of engagement between the various associations and stakeholders which includes primary producers, processors, channel distributors, logistics, and service providers, including Research and Development among others. Iyama stated that Agrikexpo is commendable and has evolved continuously to a reference platform for agrofood promotion & development ,which is made better by strategic location and nearness to actual famers , project decision makers in government and sundry processors Similarly, Akin Sawyer, secretary general, Agricultural Fresh Produce Growers and Exporters Association of Nigeria (AFGEAN) sees the opportunity of conferences as good chance for creative conversations on moving agriculture forward in Nigeria, while also commending the organisers. Sawyer noted that a platform for trade exchange would definitely augur well for both users and sellers of various agro-food solutions. The upcoming agricultural event is expected to host delegations from the diplomatic trade community and various bilateral chamber associations, including very high level speakers from the agric-finance and insurance community. Also, plenary session would hold and issues around lending to farmers and agribusiness would be featured in partnership with the Chartered Institute of Bankers. Communiqués would be issued in the end with a view to enhancing policies inclusiveness at various levels. Consequently, the three day expo would be a carnival of agro-food solutions and products. Abdullahi Yakubu, project manager, Agrikexpo & Conferences said that several overseas and local delegates are expected at the expo to herald Nigeria’s Independence at 58 and the sustained focus of government on transforming the sector. “Visitors and exhibitors should rest assured of best value for both time and money as arrangements are in top gear for best results,” Yakubu said. 