Chairman of the main opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Lagos state, Moshood Salvador, has alleged that former deputy national chairman of the party, Olabode George, instigated the recent crisis which led to the killing of the chairman of Apapa Local Government Area chapter of the party, Borishade Adeniyi. Salvador stated this at a meeting with party members and leaders across the state, lamenting that all his efforts  at repositioning the party in the state had been frustrated by Bode George and his cohorts across the state since he assumed office. Salvador noted that the recent killing of the Apapa LGA chairman was planned to humiliate him and discredit his administration, stressing that his disagreement with George was because of his decision to operate his administration in line with the party constitution while giving party members a voice in the affairs of the party. “I don’t know anything about the killing of Apapa LGA chapter chairman; I had left the venue when this happened. Some people who came from Bode George’s camp came to disorganise our meeting; they had earlier come to Ibeju Lekki  but could not carry out their plan due to the presence of heavy security officials at the venue of the meeting. “The problem is because I decided to go with the constitution of the party which some people are not happy about. We are working for the progress of the party; we never talked about people in our meeting. “He said we should have things done in his usual way and I said no.  He said we should be having meetings in his house which I disagreed with. I told him he did not have the facilities I had in my house. “When I assumed office, I decided to look into the register of the party and realised that we did not have enough members, I decided to go round the state to inaugurate chapters. I have inaugurated thirteen chapters until that day when the killings took place”, Salvador said. Also speaking at the event, a leader of the party in the state, Ramon Owokoniran, said that there had been significant transformation in the party since Salvador assumed office, while further accusing George of working to undermine the electoral success of the party in the state. “We have seen how Salvador has changed the fortunes of the party since he assumed office; his decision to move round the state and visit our chapters is commendable and is drawing members for the party. “We don’t want a leaders who cannot visit our people, leaders who cannot win his ward; they are the ones destroying the party in Lagos state”,  Owokoniran said. 