In my sojourn in the faith work, many times I have had to look at the entire panorama of Christianity. It never ceases to amaze me the depth of simplicity with which God packaged Christianity. Little wonder Jesus said, “learn of me … and you shall find rest unto your soul”. The most important demand or need of man in life is not money, clothing or housing but REST. After a man is done toiling and struggling, his sweetest and most gratifying desire is to rest. Every day it is becoming increasingly clear that truly God loves man. The harbinger of all this citation is from Matthew 6: 33 (seek ye first the kingdom of God…). How do you partake of a blessing you never knew existed? How do you operate and benefit from an environment where direction and guidance is non-existent? These and many other questions come to mind when you look at how much man struggles and toils and he seems not to be able to make headway in life. The culprits in all of this matter are Christians. They are supposed to know better, as they are the ones the keys of the kingdom were glibly handed to. They are the ones that Jesus suffered and bled for on the cross of Calvary (though Jesus died for the whole world, it is only people that appropriate what he did that benefit from it). He left His glory in heaven and became poor so that they can become rich. He was wounded so that they could be healed, many and all other things he stood for so that there could be perfect exchange that makes for rest in all sphere of life. Like you will bear me witness, it does not in any way look like Jesus did anything worthy of celebration or honour in favour of the believers. Many that he died for are languishing in penury, are sick and lame through life only because of disregard for instruction- “seek ye FIRST the kingdom”. The kingdom of God is vast and many sided, and until a man get a good grasp of the working of the kingdom of God he would grope through life. Headed nowhere even though he claimed to know God (… having the form of godliness but denying the power therefore …nothing to show for it). Your new birth experience made you an automatic citizen of the kingdom of God with access to the vast resources of the kingdom willed to YOU. All truths are parallel, as you were given birth to in the physical as new born babe, so are you as new born babe in the kingdom of God. You now know the reason why we have many babies in the kingdom untrained, unruly, disorder and disobedient soiling the name of our God, throwing tantrums here and there. Your access to wealth untold, blessing unequalled is in the sitting down and seeking first the kingdom of God and how it operates or function. This does require patience, training, practice and prayers. With proper adherence to this training program, we come out with our MSC (Masters of Circumstances) in the affairs of life. Truly all the things that the world is dying for, clamouring for begin effortlessly begging to locate us as their Masters. This mind-set and programming is required in the marketplace otherwise we fail woefully. Let us all pick up our gauntlets as privileged, purchased people of God and begin to do exploit as designed. As we do what is BEST first (pursue the kingdom then we can be sure of other things that the gentiles are chasing) begins to run after us. Remain blessed. @spiritonomics 