Visionscape Sanitation Services Limited, the environmental utility company vested with the management of domestic waste under the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) of the Lagos State government, says it is building critical infrastructure and upgrading some existing transfer loading stations to aid quicker waste collection and disposal in the state.   John Irvine, CEO of Visionscape, stated this on Thursday, saying in addition that the company remained committed to working with all stakeholders in the waste management industry in tackling the challenge.   BusinessDay had reported on Thursday the resurgence of waste in some parts of the Lagos metropolis, particularly Alimosho, Amuwo-Odofin, Ajeromi-Ifelodun and Apapa, where heaps of refuse were left for days on the streets, with the residents already raising concerns bordering on health hazards.   Irvine, who reacted to the report, said, “We are aware of the recent complaints about the resurgence of waste across the Lagos West axis of the state.”   According to the CEO, “Under the new arrangements for waste management reform by the Lagos State Ministry of the Environment, our mandate to accelerate waste infrastructure has made it necessary to temporarily close two transfer loading stations in that axis for upgrades and refurbishment of the facilities. As a result, there is a backlog as waste collection operators experience a higher turn-around time. This underscores the importance of infrastructure to the waste management system and our role, as Visionscape remains the provision of these facilities. Other environmental works like drainage and waterways management are handled by the Ministry of the Environment and its relevant agencies. “We remain committed to working with all stakeholders as we carry out our respective roles and responsibilities, and will continue to support the waste collection efforts through our Monitoring and Intervention (M&I) team,” said Irvine. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, the state Commissioner for the Environment, had also linked the resurgence of waste in the metropolis to the rainy season and the lack of proper disposal by residences, but added that steps were being taken to address the challenge. Durosinmi-Etti, who spoke with BusinessDay, said the government was also partnership with community development associations, corporate and religious bodies to check illegal dumping while the relevant unit in his ministry was also liaising with the Works Department to clear drainages to allow for a better flow of flood waters. “We’re taking the message to the communities because they’re the beneficiaries of what we’re doing. They have to embrace it and key into the vision,” Durosinmi-Etti said, adding that within the next few weeks, areas experiencing resurgence of waste in the state, would witness remarkable improvement. 