Team Cosmos Constellation (C-Stell) emerged as winners of the //Re:Code Nigeria Hackathon 2018 themed “Data Hack” which was sponsored by Access Bank Plc in partnership with Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF). The team created a system to minimise demurrage contributed by human errors by creating a system that uses optical character recognition to fetch text from scanned documents. It also provides notifications to minimise demurrage and offers the tracking of shipments across ports. Coming first out of 115 multiple teams of talented developers, designers, problem-solvers, out-of-the-box thinkers, and code magicians that participated in the event. Team C-Stell addressed all the problem statements for the //Re:Code Nigeria Hackathon 2018, which included; How financial technology can address supply chain challenges (from finished goods to retail) in the FMCG sector to drive profitability and growth. It also addressed the problem involved with leveraging big-data analytics, identity management and behavioral analysis to identify customers’ needs, reduce risk, exposure, provide investment advice & lending services. And finally, the problem of financial inclusion for the Agric and related sectors with a focus on improving credit scoring and financing opportunities for small and medium scale operators. Participants were grouped into 26 teams to provide solutions to these three problem statements, and pitch their solutions to the judges within a time frame of 48hours. The winners went home with a cash prize totalling almost N5million among other prices. In second place was Team Ace, with a solution called TrackIt. The team created a system that not only views and gives up to date tracking of shipments, but can check analytics and provide information of all payments accrued and shipments in process or honoured in real time. Team BAT (Building Awesome Technologies) came third. The team created a smart assistant which leverages Imputed data set, Unsupervised Deep-learning algorithm and Internet of things to aid and guide the users in making informed decision while keeping engagement simple. Speaking at the event, Adeleke Adekoya, AFF’s business solutions architect said, “At AFF, we are known to lead and deliver a comprehensive digital strategy and be at the forefront in providing innovative technological solutions leading to significant improvements in customer satisfaction. We organize Hackathon to bring indigenous technological solutions to the global stage, and showcase Nigeria’s strides and solutions in the Fintech and technology space as this will rapidly unlock new economic opportunities and accelerate our development as a nation.” Victor Etuokwu, Executive Director, Access Bank Plc said for Fintech to thrive in Nigeria, a framework that encourages innovation and ensures consumers are protected must be in place. “At Access Bank, we have a track record of technological innovation and as a leading Bank in driving digital banking in Africa. We seek to create new opportunities in emerging markets by providing a platform designed to inspire and challenge innovators and entrepreneurs, as such we have partnered with AFF and leveraged on our global platform to further foster innovation, drive entrepreneurship as well as economic development,” he stated. He maintained that Access Bank, was committed to supporting innovative projects and ideas initiated for the benefit of the Nigerian economy and Africa as a whole.  JUMOKE AKIYODE-LAWANSON 