In recent time, some political stakeholders in Nigeria have advocated for a single tenure of five or six years for those occupying executive positions at the state and federal levels. These changes, they argued, have become necessary because of the culture of Nigerian politicians to abandon their campaigns promises to the masses, while the business of governance is often relegated to the background, the political space is heated up all in their desperation to retain power at all cost. However, this call was again brought to the fore by the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, on his facebook page, during the week. Ekweremadu lamented that the country’s political space was already heated up ahead of the 2019 general elections, stressing that governance was being relegated to the background. He predicted that the atmosphere with its attendant political excesses would remain the same until after the 2019 general elections. “The feverish political climate in the country today, once again, justifies the call by some of us for a single term of five or six years for the president and governors. “Although a renewable four-year term is popular, societies are dynamic and it is up to us to make necessary constitutional adjustments to safeguard our democracy and make periods leading up to our elections less toxic. “For over 150 years, starting from George Washington up to Harry Truman, there was no term limit for Presidents of the United States of America. “In fact, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt served four terms (although he died just 11 weeks into his fourth term). It was the 22nd Amendment, which was ratified on February 27, 1951, that gave birth to the two-term limit for US presidents.” The Enugu born Senator explained that when Latin Americans discovered the penchant of incumbents for self-perpetuation, overheated their polities and threatened their democracies, they adopted the single term presidency until such a time their respective democracies matured and stabilised. This according to him will substantially reduce the political tensions and executive excesses that come with self-succession. However, the proposal have equally received opposition and criticism from some political observers, who argued that the problem with the country was not about the tenure, but the inability of politicians to implement formulated policies, fulfilled their campaign promises and their negative attitude towards public offices. Some Political observes  are of the opinion that such decision should be put through a referendum for Nigerian’s to decide. The National chairman of the Labour Party (LP) Mike Omotosho, agreed that there was the need for a holistic review of the politicians system in the country, but disagreed that single tenure of five or six years was the solution. “The duration of the tenure does not matter to me, if politicians can implement their campaign promises; I mean policies which are formulated, pay salaries when dues there would not be problem. In this country we are good at formulating policies, but we don’t implement”. The constitution provides two terms; I believe there is need for changes when needed, but singe tenure of six, or five years may not solve the problems we have, it is our attitude”. Omotosho said. Also speaking in a similar vein, the Deputy Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos state, Biodun Salami , said that the current  system was the best for the country, stressing that it may be difficult for a governor to achieve much in  single tenure. “Whatever you say, I still prefer the current system that is my personal position. The second tenure is where the Governors consolidate on their programmes. Governance is not easy the way we think it is. “You know this people have to settle down after been elected into offices. But even if we are to make changes it as to be the people that should decide, let put it through a referendum”. Salami said. 