Acting President Yemi Osinbajo Tuesday said President Muhamamdu Buhari administration would continue to secure the country, upgrade its infrastructure and ensure that the wealth of the nation is not hijacked by a greedy few. This is just as the Acting President Tuesday, also congratulated the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen, on his conferment with the 2018 Michael Hill Prize by the International Society for the Reform of Criminal Law (ISRCL) in Montreal, Canada. Osinbajo who was in Zamfara on a one-day working visit to Zamfara State used the opportunity to commission projects executed by the state government, including the upgraded 150-bed General Hospital in Bakura LGA, the Water Works project at Gamji Other projects commissioned by Osinbajo included a 12.8 kilometer road project in the same community and a Modern Primary School in Talata Mafara. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the Acting President on Mediand Publicity, Laolu Akande, said Osinbajo also harped on the provision of projects that will benefit the masses, especially the less privileged Nigerians According to him”Buhari Administration will continue to work to secure the country, upgrade its infrastructure, and ensure that the wealth of the country is not hijacked by a greedy few, but is instead used for the benefit of everyone, with special emphasis on the least-privileged”. On the crisis caused by the invasion of communities in the state by armed bandits, Osinbajo assured that “the Federal Government will sustain the tempo of its fight against all forms of criminality, and not just here in Zamfara State, but all over the country.” “I would like to reiterate the total determination of the Federal Government to support and work with the State Government to permanently deal with and defeat these challenges, and to ensure that Zamfara, remains a promising land of agriculture, commerce, tourism and hospitality. “This fight will of course not be won until every hotspot and flashpoint in Nigeria is freed and secured. Every Nigerian life matters, and we will not relent in our efforts to completely subdue the perpetrators of bloodshed and violence.
“Let me reassure all that we will keep up the tempo, and will continue to provide all the needed support to our law enforcement agents as they work hard to restore peace and security.”
The Acting President also commended the Zamfara State government for its resilience and determination in providing for the people through important projects and programmes despite the challenge of insecurity. Speaking further on the challenge posed by the activities of illegal miners in Zamfara state, Osinbajo said the administration is committed to charting a new future, free of poisoning and exploitation, for Zamfara and all other affected parts of the country. “We owe it to our children and future generations, to bequeath to them an environment that will support, not undermine their dreams and aspirations,” He called on all Nigerians to remain steadfast and committed to the unity of this country, noting that “our dream of building a prosperous Nigeria, that will take its rightful place in the midst of the global community of states, cannot be realized in a state of acrimony, primordial divisions, and prejudiced thinking.” The Acting President was accompanied on the visit by the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali, APC’s Deputy National Chairman North, Lawal Shuaibu and other top government officials Osinbajo, while congratulating the CJN, noted that the award was in recognition of Onnoghen’s commitment to the development of the country’s judicial system. Onnoghen was honoured at the 31st conference of the ISRCL, an international non-governmental association of judges, legislators, lawyers, academics, governmental officials, and police and corrections professionals. According to him, “It is heart-warming to see the Your Lordship’s hardwork and commitment to deepening reforms for a more effective administration of Justice system in the country has received international attention and commendation from such a prestigious association.”  Tony Ailemen, Abujja 