Preparations are in top gear by All Progressives Congress (APC) supporters for the planned defection of Godswill Akpabio, the immediate past senate minority leader who has resigned his position to enable him formalise his defection from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Akpabio who represents Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial district in the senate was the governor of Akwa Ibom state between 2007 and 2015. According to reports, his defection will take place in Ikot Ekpene, the headquarters of his senatorial district about 30 kilometres from Uyo the state capital. Already he has arrived the Ibom airport where hundreds of his supporters received him on his way to his hometown in Essien Udim local government area, in a convoy of buses and cars. Many of the supporters carried the banner of the party waving brooms, the symbol of their party with jubilation and excitement as the convoy drove through Ikot Ekpene Road. Speaking, one of the supporters who hails from the same senatorial district described the defection of  Akpabio as that of a big fish which has defected to join another party. Akpabio’s defection is remarkable event, we are all happy with him as our leader,’’ he said. Also speaking, Ita Awak, the immediate past publicity of APC in Akwa Ibom State said he would not speak on the matter until Akpabio’s defection adding that he would adopt a wait and see attitude until  after his defection,’’ he said. Awak who is the director of air worthiness at the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) had earlier posted on his timeline that “I know as a truth that nobody can politically negotiate him/herself out of the reach of retributive justice.’’ Both the chairman of the party, Ini Okopido and the secretary of the party, Effiong Etuk did not response to text message sent to their phones, neither did they pick their phone calls.  It was gathered that the entire preparation was being handled by the senatorial district of the party and not by the state chapter, a development which might be an indication of alleged infighting over Akpabio’s defection. Checks showed that though Akpabio was the former governor of Akwa Ibom State, his decision to defect has split the polity into two. While he is drawing his support base from his senatorial district, the two other senatorial districts in the state appear to be bothered that Akpabio’s defection might change the zoning arrangement in the state, which he instituted. The state government has yet to issue any official statement on Akpabio’s planned defection though the PDP had its stakeholders meeting over the weekend, no mention was made of the defection. In statement issued at the end of the meeting, Ini Ememobong, the publicity secretary of the party said the governor thanked the stakeholders for their steadfastness and loyalty to the party and his administration. According to unconfirmed report, many of the new converts to APC have bought off many brooms in the main market in Uyo in preparation of the defection. Governor Udom Emmanuel before his appointment as the secretary to the state government was an executive director at Zenith  Bank and was subsequently elected Governor in 2015. According to reports, the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Adams Oshiomhole, the national  chairman of the party are expected in Akwa Ibom State for the defection ceremony 