The Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) in the House of Representatives on Thursday vowed to resist the purported plans by All Progressive Congress (APC) lawmakers aimed at impeaching Speaker Yakubu Dogara The legislative pressure group which has members drawn across party lines, also warned the anti-Dogara lawmakers to desist from all activities capable of distracting the House from carrying out its legislative functions with their 2019 ambitions. Timothy Golu (PDP-Plateau) who made public the position via a statement issued in Abuja, frowned at the series of accusations and counter accusations of various support groups among the APC caucus in the Lower Chamber. “We believe it is the aftermath of the gale of defections that had hit the party in recent times, of which more is being expected, in as much as we will not delve into their personal caucus matters. “However any issue that concerns the larger House will not cease to get our attention, especially the accusation by one group that another group is contemplating the impeachment of the Speaker,” he stated. Golu who chairs the House committee on Legislative Budget and Research further said “We want to warn that such discussions should start and end at the APC secretariat or the secretariats of the various APC house groups. “We are keeping our eyes and ears wide open for any such eventuality and to restate our readiness to return fire for fire on anyone thinking of it. “If they claim that someone is thinking of becoming Speaker in 2019 when the tenure has not ended, it will not be out of place to suspect such motives especially when the same people have been talking strongly on the urgent need to address critical legislative issues”. The group which passed vote of confidence on the House leadership, maintained that “Speaker Yakubu Dogara is on top of his job. “He has been doing excellently well, respecting his colleagues and leading with the fear of God and in accordance with the Constitution and our House rules. “He has performed very well in providing the expected legislative leadership. If anyone someone is thinking of replacing him even when this tenure is not yet ended, then it means a lot may be happening underground. “We call on our colleagues leading the various splinter groups in the APC to allow the House go on smoothly until the 9th of June, 2019 or thereabout. “We do not want the externally influenced distraction taking place in the red chamber where some anti-democratic forces want to truncate democracy to happen in the House. “As true democrats, we are at alert, keeping vigilance and monitoring happenings with eagle eye wherever they are,” the Plateau lawmaker stressed. Meanwhile, one of the leaders of the Parliamentary Support Group (PSG) loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari recently affirmed the Group’s move to impeach Speaker Dogara. According to the lawmaker who pleaded anonymity, about 81 signatures have already been collected in the House and the ultimate plan was the removal of the Speaker, while 68 signatures have been collected in the Senate.
“We just started the one for the Reps yesterday and already we have 81 and by the time we get the  two- third, we can invoke the impeachment.
“Then, we are also thinking at the level of the group if or not to spare the Senate President because he still has some value, but we will strike on the Speaker and get a die-hard supporter of the President to put as Speaker,” the lawmaker said. 