PorkMoney, a leading pig farming enterprise in West Africa, has trained over 50 youths on ways of turning their ideas into business. The master class training took place last Friday and had in attendance over 50 youths with entrepreneurial ideas. “Every business idea starts by identifying a problem and then providing a solution to the problem that people are willing to pay for. Anything outside this is not a business,” Afua Osei, co-founder of She leads Africa, said.  “You need to learn and target who your intended customers are and where they are located in the society for you to effectively strategise your distribution to market your products,” Osei added. She urged the youth to leverage data to grow and scale up their businesses once they have commenced operation. “You need to keep tracking your sales as well as analytics to identify who is buying your products or services,” she said. She noted that most start-ups fail owing to their inability to conduct adequate research about their customers while spending money on things that do not really matter. “Start-ups should only invest in things that have impact on generating more money for the business,” she said. Similarly, she encouraged them to be open to feedbacks by listening and taking the most important points from it and doing something about it. Also speaking to the youths during the training, Linda Obi, chief operating officer of PorkMoney, talked about agribusiness and how the youth can leverage opportunity in that space to grow their finances. “You have an idea and you are not yet ready to start the business. You can invest the little money you have in ventures that can give you good returns until you are ready to kick-start,” Obi said. She urged them to leverage such opportunities provided by PorkMoney to grow their business by investing and getting good returns on it. Obi stated that PorkMoney gives between 20 and 35 percent returns on investment depending on the amount invested by the partners.  Josephine Okojie 