Digital marketing evolves continuously and each year brings new trends and tactics marketers use to reach, engage, and convert their audiences. Here are 4 essential digital marketing trends that will be ruling in the second half of 2018. It may sound futuristic, but AI is playing an increasingly important role in marketing processes today. AI-based tools analyze consumer behavior and look for patterns, making use of heaps of data pouring from social media, website and blog posts to help businesses understand how customers find their products and services. AI-powered chatbots are also an essential marketing tool that offers information and tips to users by involving them in a conversation. According to Gartner, by 2020 85% of customer interactions won’t involve a human sales rep. Businesses that choose to adopt AI in their marketing strategies this year will accelerate their growth and save costs, positioning themselves at the leading edge of the industry. Content is king. This phrase holds true in 2018 and will become even more true in the next few years. Without producing quality content, businesses stand no chance at differentiating themselves from competition and building and solid reputation on the web. After all, if consumers can choose from hundreds of similar products or services, why should they choose yours? That’s where content marketing comes in. And thanks to new services that connect publishers with advertisers such as Marketin9, it’s easier than ever to produce quality content and publish it on portals that have excellent reputation in a given sector. Video is a strong trend that isn’t going anywhere. Marketing experts claim that different varieties of video – ranging from live to social media stories – are going to become only more influential in digital marketing. Videos help brands tell compelling stories, get their point across faster, and instantly improve sales. Did you know that by including a video on the landing page you can increase conversions by as much as 80%? It doesn’t matter if you invest in the YouTube videos, Facebook Live, or produce a video for your website. Developing quality video content for your customers is essential in 2018. Ask any SEO Agency, like https://www.internetum.com/en/seo-agency/, and they will tell you that organic traffic from SEO is one of the best sources of web traffic for businesses. It’s simple. If a consumer is looking for your product or service and lands on your page through the search engine results, you can be sure that it’s a qualified lead and do everything you can to convert them. One of the most recent trends in SEO is reviews. Google takes into account the reviews your business receives on Facebook, Yelp, and Google. Most users check online reviews before purchasing an item or investing in the service. That’s why you have to make sure that they can find your positive reviews easily and develop a system for asking for reviews. Do you know any other trends that will explode in 2018? Share them in comments – we’re looking forward to seeing what the digital marketing landscape will look like this year.  Phill Gates  