A group of women in Rivers State on Monday threatened to storm the Supply Base of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO) located in the Oil and Gas Free Zone, Onne, naked to stall an alleged plan by the company to relocate the supply base to Lagos. This came barely three weeks after some youths under the aegis of the Onne Youths Council (OYC), staged a peaceful protest at the SNEPCO base, asking the company to rescind its decision to relocate the Supply Base from the free zone to the Lagos port. Philip John Tenwa, President of OYC, who led the protest, said that the planned relocation would lead to the loss of more than 5,000 direct and indirect jobs. In addition to staging a peaceful protest, the Onne Youth Council also said it would send petitions to relevant authorities including President Muhammdu Buhari; Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike; the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority (OGFZA); the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and the Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) to prevail on SNEPCO to rescind its decision. Similarly in Port Harcourt on Monday, Henrietta Edumoh, leader of the Concerned Community Women of Rivers (COCOWOR), said her group was concluding plans to mobilise women from all over Rivers State to storm the SNEPCO Supply Base in Onne naked in order to register their displeasure over the planned relocation. “As mothers, we cannot fold our arms and watch our husbands and children being thrown out of jobs. If SNEPCO relocates its Supply Base from Onne, it means those who work there, numbering thousands of people will lose their jobs. “It also means that our people who try to make ends meet by doing small contracts or trading around that facility will suffer. How do you want those people to cater for their families?” she questioned. Edumoh said the SNEPCO Supply Base relocation will not only push more people into the labour market, but may also threaten the fragile peace in the Niger Delta region. “They say an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. If people do not have jobs to do, that is when they begin to conceive criminal ideas. We do not want that to happen in our communities. So, we appeal to them not to leave Onne because Onne has been very good to them. It has been a peaceful community and has supported their business for many years,” she said. She said the planned protest will only be shelved if her members get the assurance that SNEPCO will rescind its decision to relocate. Various interest groups including workers, stakeholders and community leaders have kicked against the planned relocation of the SNEPCO Supply Base out of Onne. Recall that King John Dennis Osaronu, the Paramount Ruler of Onne, also lent his voice to the call on SNEPCO to rescind its relocation decision. The monarch appealed to “President Buhari, Governor Wike, and other well-meaning Nigerians to stop this move by SNEPCO”.  AMAKA ANAGOR 