The human hair business used as hair extensions, wigs and braids is an industry that is thriving in Nigeria. SHARON ADEMEFUN, UGOCHI JOHN and Abimbola Fasoranti have stories to tell on the challenges, how lucrative and worthwhile the business is. They share these and more with KEMI AJUMOBI. Excerpts. Sharon Ademefun is an entrepreneur and the founder of the Rona Beauty Centre. She specializes in making wigs and is one of the most sought after Wig Makers in Nigeria; She also runs a micro-blog called Rona Diary of An Inner Fat Girl, where she chronicles her journey with weight loss and keeping a healthy lifestyle. She completed a BSc in Mass Communications with a concentration in Public Relations and a Masters of Arts Advertising Marketing from the University of Leeds. Sharon is married with two sons. When and why did you go into the hair business? Back in 2014 I was on bed rest during my pregnancy with my first child, and I was bored out of my mind. I was tired of waiting for my wig maker to get my wigs across to me so I decided to take matters into my own hands. I studied a few YouTube videos (they had very little content on wig making at the time) and I started experimenting. As I improved, I started making wigs for myself, friends and family, and was soon encouraged to turn it into a business. The rest is history. Would you say investing in weaves is a worthy investment? It comes down to buying good quality hair from the right source. If you have a lifestyle of using human hair or wearing wigs then investing in high quality human hair is a great investment. It can enhance your looks; it lasts for years and can be reused many times. How has the patronage been from inception till date? I thank God we have always been able to cover our expenses and even provide benefits to our employees. So while profits vary from month to month, we have a reputation associated with quality and great customer service and I believe that is what keeps the customers coming. What separates your wigs from others? Before any hair or wigs are introduced to my customers, I test the hair quality for three to six months so that if a customer comes to me with a concern or observation, nine times out of ten, I too experienced it during my testing period and I can advise accordingly. How do you marry your other ventures with the wig business? Rona has some sub-categories within the business such as a developing Rona Beauty line, which is the hair care products that walk hand in hand with wigs. We also have Gele on the Go, which is our auto-gele line that is still a covering for the head though it is not wig related we have seen significant growth in patronage. Finally we have Body by Rona, this is a non-surgical body sculpting studio that we launched last year, it still within the beauty industry but it more geared towards weight loss, which is something I am also very passionate about. By God’s grace, I am able to do all of these through the grace of God and commitment to fulfilling my purpose. Challenges? MONEY, MONEY, MONEY!!! As a small medium enterprise, money is always a challenge, it has taken me years to really establish discipline to ensure that we have enough money to maintain the running of the business. Hair business is capital intensive because it requires you to keep a large volume of human hair in stock at any given time in order to keep up with demand, but sometimes you have more stock than demand.  Another challenge is keeping yourself relevant in a very saturated market, marketing and reinventing your brand is also challenging. What are the errors wig owners make that destroys their weaves quickly? They don’t come to Ronawigs! Lol… No just joking, there are a number of things you can do to reduce the life of your wig. One of them is sleeping with your wig on, believe it or not, sleeping with your wigs wear out your units and significantly thin out your hair. Dyeing your weaves excessively damages the hair and strips the follicles of the hair and can lead to weak, tangled hair. Blow drying your wig with a roller brush can cause excessive shedding as it pulls the hair out. What is your take on people using all sorts for bonding? what do you advice? There is nothing wrong with using glue or adhesive if you know how to use it correctly, and more importantly, remove the adhesive properly.  Final words Understand that whatever is worth having is worth fighting for. Establishing a business is a process that requires (for lack of a better word) “sticktoitiveness”, even when it gets challenging keep moving forward and understand that growth takes time. Ugochi John, is the CEO of Hair by Ugo, and the Founder of the Hair Laundry. Ugochi John, is the CEO of Hair by Ugo, and the Founder of the Hair Laundry, Nigeria’s foremost female hair laundry boutique. She is a wife and mother to three lovely kids. She likes to describe herself as a hair consultant as she believes that she is very knowledgeable about the industry. She is a graduate of English and literature and Alumni of Lagos business school. She started the hair laundry after she had been in the hair business for a while. She realized a problem in the industry where by a lot of women had problems with getting maximum value from their hair after use. She had discovered a solution to this with The Hair Laundry. How lucrative has your business been? Well, My business has been very lucrative, that’s the reason I am still here. We record growth, significant growth every year.  This is the reason why business has been better than fantastic for me. Weaves as investment? I have been asked this question a lot of times, and my answer has always remained the same. I absolutely believe that your weave is an investment. While a few people argue that the weave can’t be resold for a higher value, in cash, I always insist that those people have not properly kept a record of their recurring expenses on bad hair. One must also bear in mind that a return on investment must not be in cash. For example, that relationship that has blossomed because of your glam look on the last date is all part of it. The massive confidence with which she aced that business meeting is all part of the return on investment. Remaining on top of your business I know it sounds cliché, but it has been God! God working through my repeat clients and the referrals they keep sending my way. But on staying relevant, I would say, we keep evolving, the hair industry changes daily and we pay attention to this change, we also stay innovative, to match up with the trend and that’s how we have strived. Hair Laundry Yes, repairing weaves and turning them into brand-new is what we do and much more. We do not believe there is anything such as bad hair. It simply is what you have and our core business is to give you value for your hair irrespective of the source. We are like Drs, and our patients are your used weaves. We consult, diagnose and based on what we diagnose, we recommend a treatment. Sometimes, cutting a long hair short could be the solution. The hair laundry is my baby. It is a business I started with great passion and zero account balance. I can talk about it all day.  Who is the Hair By Ugo Woman? The hair by Ugo woman is someone I like to describe as the woman who goes from the boardroom to the TV screen, then to also being a wife, mother, and sister. This woman is the type who pushes her limit daily. She excels and confidently takes over territories both in her workplace and at home. These are the kind of women that patronize the Hair by Ugo brand. Business Decision? I recently celebrated my 5th year in this business and the funny thing is how I stumbled upon the business. It was purely by chance. Opportunity met preparedness and here I am today. Viola! What ladies should look out for before buying weaves A lot, but this would depend also on the type of hair and budget. However, the most important thing is the credibility of the brand. The most practical thing to do would be a background check of the vendor depending on how you met the vendor.  Social media has also helped a lot in the aspect of reading reviews. How can a good weave spark up your look? Didn’t the Bible describe a woman’s hair as her glory? A good hair does not just spark your look from zero to 100; it enhances your confidence level. When you are stunning, you just know! A good hair, well done, sure does make a lady look effortlessly beautiful! Abimbola Fasoranti is the CEO of Hair by Beesroots Abimbola Fasoranti is the CEO of Hair by Beesroots. They specialize in providing 100% quality hair extensions and wigs at affordable prices. Hair by Beesroots was born out of her passion to provide women with better quality hair extensions. She started in 2010 selling hair from her car and it has since grown into a physical hair studio with a staff strength of 5 while still maintaining 100% quality delivery. Reason for establishing your business I went into the business in 2010; just after my University during my NYSC. While looking for a job, I needed a source of income. My love for hair just made the business ideal. Is it financially rewarding? It’s financially rewarding if you do your homework. It’s a business that has a lot of back room work. What you see on the outside is the result of a lot of research, losses and heavy investments. It’s a business that requires a lot of financial commitment which can result in profit if you are ready for the work and have self-discipline.  Where are your clients from? I have clients from all over the world but a majority of my clients are Nigerians. They also cut across various demographics.  Pricey? I believe  hair extensions are pricey. It’s not just the investment in the hair itself but the investment in what it can do for you, its function. Hair extensions become a part your identity. It’s a variation of a crown and you are best wearing the right and quality crown. How important is it to buy original hair? Longevity. The money you spend should be on hair that you can get good use out of no matter how you manipulate it. With good care, you should be able to wear your hair for at least five years and more. How can you identify fake hair from original? To be honest, with the China market continuing to innovate, it may be difficult for the client to differentiate. There are many variations and copy’s available in the market. That a weave is inexpensive, does it mean it is not original? Affordability is relative hence what is inexpensive to one client may not be to the other. Quality is not determined by price but rather longevity. I personally provide affordability, quality and longevity in my hair extensions. Final words To the young entrepreneur out there, be consistent, stay true to yourself; Always strive to give the best in every situation and Don’t give up! 