Business owners are puzzled by a court injunction obtained by the Consumer Protection Council (CPC) seeking to stop a price increase implemented by cable television operator, MultiChoice for its DSTV service in Nigeria. At the request of the CPC, a Federal High Court sitting in Maitama, Abuja, on August 20 restrained MultiChoice Nigeria Limited from implementing a recent increase in DStv subscription rates that took effect on 1 August. Justice Nnamdi Dimgba granted an injunction restraining the video entertainment and Internet Company from implementing the new rates. The court also restrained MultiChoice from any conduct capable of interfering with the regulatory process of CPC. In a press release stating why it approached the court to stop DSTV from implementing the new rates, the CPC argued that ‘it has a constitutional responsibility to protect the welfare and interest of consumers in Nigeria through the instrumentality of the “the Council” established pursuant to However, CPC claims that the court injunction it got did not intend to regulate price, or in any way interfere with the commercial interface between Multichoice and its customers in fixing price.  ‘Essentially, the Council recognizes and respects the fidelity in the operation of free market forces in arriving at prices for goods or services.’ ‘The Council understands and appreciates that price is an acceptable determination of transparent and undistorted market operations. However, it is the law, that operators can by conduct, distort the market and, or otherwise compromise the integrity or transparency of the market, thereby questioning the reliability of the pricing methodology or mechanism.’  The CPC also admitted that ‘these principles are better articulated in the context of a Competition or Antitrust legislation and regime, which Nigeria does not have’. The CPC however insists that ‘they are consumer protection principles that are generally express or sometimes derived from existing consumer protection legislation.’ The organisation quotes Section 2(i) CPC Act which expressly states that ‘In any inquiry under the CPCA, the question must be whether any entity or individual has engaged in conduct that constitutes an “obnoxious practice”, or “unscrupulous exploitation”. ‘The Council in addressing the entire scope of complaints and House of Representatives resolution, proceeded in the investigation.  Multichoice initially adopted a sensible industry approach to regulatory oversight, which was to preserve regulatory and company resources by making admissions of its own in certain areas and welcoming additional regulatory initiatives to improve services and customer experience over a period of time, and supervision.’ According to the Council,”Over a period of time, during which mutual concerns and reservations were addressed, the Council and MultiChoice agreed and adopted a Proposed Mutual Joint Consent Order.” “The terms and obligations included an unopposed and undisputed requirement and understanding that Multichoice will not change, revise or modify any material term or conditions of service(s) for a period of 24 months. Multichoice never expressed any concerns or dissatisfaction with this clause of the Consent Order that required Multichoice to maintain status quo on its Terms and Conditions (which naturally includes pricing) for the 24-month period during which the company would have been under the Council’s supervision, to ensure that all necessary corrective measures were adequately implemented, and that consumers eventually get expected value for their money.” However, analysts disagree with the position by CPC that Multichoice agreed not to raise price for 24 months, noting that price is not something that any company can commit not to increase or reduce for that long considering that different variables go into the fixing of price. “Inflation has remained at double digits for more than two years. Which company can guaranty fixed prices for that period’ an analyst asked. Analysts have also noted that DSTV is not an essential commodity for which price should be fixed. “People have choices when it comes to Cable TV. There is Kwese TV, and TSTV just came back on stream. There are also different online versions. So why is CPC concerned about DSTV when the company is playing in a market that has competition. I thought DSTV should be worried more about the power sector where operators are using estimated billing to kill many Nigerians who genuinely have no options” Analysts also note that the CPC should have been more concerned if DSTV was reducing prices as that could have squeezed new entrants and constrained competition in the sector. “DSTV increasing prices is actually good for competition in the cable TV sector, as it means that the new entrants like Kwese TV and TSTV could become attractive for consumers because they are cheaper. Allowing them keep their low prices is actually not in the interest of consumers” said a player in the industry. BusinessDay investigations actually show that DSTV and GoTV subscription rate paid by Nigerians, even after the rate hike, is the lowest rate charged by MultiChoice when compared to other countries in which it has operations. When BusinessDay analysed the subscription rate charged by the television and online content producing company, the rate given to Nigerians across its various packages on the platform was the least compared to what its African counterparts also pay for the same products. In July, MultiChoice raised the subscription rate for the DSTV Premium package from N14,700 to N15,800. This is lower than South Africa’s R809 (N21,228) and Ghana’s GHC368 (N27,360) for the same package. The Compact Plus package was also increased in Nigeria from N9,900 to N10,650. South Africa and Ghana pays R509 (N13,670) and GH245 (N18,365) for the same product respectively. The DSTv Compact package in the period under review was increased from N6,300 to N6,800, in Nigeria as against R385 (N10,340), GHc 149 (11,169) paid by both South Africa and Ghana. The Family packaged which was increased from N3,800 to N4,000 in Nigeria is also lower than what South Africa and Ghana pays for the product at R249 (N6,687) and GHC85 (N6,371) respectively. The Access package subscription rate in Nigeria which was up from N1,900 to N2,000 is less than South Africa’s R99 (N2,656). Responding to the rate hike, Uche Eze, a Nigerian customer said “cost of doing business in Nigeria keeps increasing and you expect DSTV to just absorb the cost? Because they are not in business to make profit?” “DSTV is a business providing service to customers, while operating in a harsh environment, if their operating expenses increase, they have to raise prices. If as a customer you are dissatisfied, cancel your subscription and subscribe to Netflix or Startimes.” Celestine Okeke,a Lead Partner, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise Advocacy and Support Initiative(MSME-ASI) believes that the CPC action is capable of discouraging private sector investment in the country.  “I do not think it is right thing the CPC is doing. We are looking for foreign investors and we are now restraining them”  “If you don’t like DSTV you can move over to STAR TIMES and other cable network. What the CPC could have done is to get the Presidency to discuss further with the DSTV and not using the ‘Nail and Hammer’ approach” Some business owners believe that the CPC action could have set a dangerous precedent that is not good for the business environment. 