The R-APC has in response to the invasion of the National Assembly by he officials of the Department for State Service, DSS as subverting the will of the people,this is even as it described the sacking of the director general of the security outfilt as a good riddance to bad rubbish. Kassim Afegbua,the Publicity Secretary of the Party said in a statement issued on Tuesday said the security outfit should have devoted more time to the ravaging insecurity in the country rather
than being partisan in state affairs. ” Rather than devote energies and synergies into the Boko Haram fight and other cases of insecurity to give Nigerians a new lease of life, the DSS under Lawan Musa Daura has become one of a partisan lot against the collective interest of the State and Nigerians.” The opposition party went further to describe the action by the security outfits as subverting the will of the people. The R-APC in the statement described the action as ridiculous,while emphatically stating that: “Conveying masked operatives of the DSS to the hallowed ground of the National Assembly to subvert the will of the people against an arm of government is the most ridiculous conduct by trained Secret Service agents. In fact, the DSS has become more or less the armed wing of the APC.” The Party in the statement urged the acting President to further sack the Inspector General of Police whom they alleged has shown careless disdain against the Nigerian people. According to the statement,”The Inspector General of Police has not only abused his discretionary powers, he has converted the Nigeria Police Force to the presidency Police Force.The Police have become object of ridicule and disgrace,the statement said. Speaking further on the invasion,the statement noted that,”They have undermined statutory authority of the National Assembly in a manner that desecrates democracy, rule of law, due process and civilised democratic conduct. We are ashamed that Nigeria has become global laughing stock and butt of jokes across the world. By the actions of the Inspector General of Police, Nigeria democracy has come under serious threat.” “We cannot afford to continue to tolerate these brazen abuses, invasions and drunken use of raw power against institution of democracy, in a 21st century world where the attraction should be more about development and growth,the statement adds further.  HARRISON EDEH, ABUJA 