19. President Buhari has continued the very corrupt practice of budget padding and budgeting for things the government knows are not needed. He has not made a single institutional reform to address corruption in Nigeria. His anti-corruption War involves arresting, and harassing suspected corrupt politicians and setting them free, if they agree to return part of the loot or failing to pursue their prosecution, if they join his political party. The result is that Nigeria remains a fantastically corrupt country, where graft, embezzlement, over invoicing, extortions by police and bribery are endemic.
20. The evidence would suggest that President Buhari is abusing his power to advance the sectarian interest of the north and the Fulani race, by aiding the violent ethnic cleansing of mainly Christian Nigerian villages by Fulani terrorists and spending Nigeria’s resources to develop Fulani nations like Niger at the expense of other parts of Nigeria. Recently, he excluded Igbo land from a West-East Rail line, while approving extension of the railway line from Nigeria to Niger.
21. At the moment, Fulanis from all over Africa are coming to Nigeria to occupy villages cleansed of the indigenous population, who are now internally displaced people. In any other civilised country, the behaviour, attitude and response of President Buhari to Fulani terrorism in Nigeria would be considered absurd, unacceptable and unconscionable.
22. In Nigeria, under Buhari, the army has stood by, while Fulani terrorists committed crimes against humanity and the police has sought to find justification for the terror, like the one offered by the president, during his recent meeting with the Archbishop of Canterbury. When the security agencies have intervened, it is to protect the terrorists by preventing reprisal attacks.
23. The most intriguing part of the Nigerian government response to Fulani herdsmen terrorism is that the police have also stepped up disarming the population at risk, instead of disarming the terrorists. Both the army and police are headed by Muslims from northern Nigeria.
24. I write to you, The Rt. Honourable Theresa May, MP Prime Minister because you occupy a most powerful and important position in Britain and have the ear of the president of Nigeria and therefore, in a position to help find a solution to the Nigerian conundrum before it is too late. Moreover, Nigeria is a creation of the British Empire; therefore, Britain has at least a moral responsibility to those who are paying the blood price of her imperial past. .
25. I appeal to you because I am aware of the nature and potential of this calculated and premeditated injustice by Buhari’s administration to sow the seeds of intractable conflict in Nigeria.
26. I hope that, The Rt. Honourable Theresa May, MP Prime Minister of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, will spare a thought for the long suffering Nigerians by lending her support to the call to President Buhari to end the ethnic cleansing of Nigerian villages by his kinsmen, who appear emboldened by his election as president of Nigeria. In addition, I urge the Prime Minister to impress on President MuhammaduBuhari the need to implement policies that will bring cattle rearing amongst Fulanis’ to modern age and standard.
27. I further plead that the First Lord of her majesty’s Treasury will impress on the president of Nigeria the wisdom of listening to the demand to restructure Nigeria to create a true federation with significant devolution of powers to the regions in order to turn Nigerian into a liberal democracy under the rule of law.
28. I believe that Nigeria is a ticking time bomb, but there is still time to diffuse it. I plead with you, Madam Prime Minister to use your great, esteemed and privileged position to speak truth to power to avoid the implosion of Nigeria.
Thank you for doing all in your power, to help the voiceless and helpless victims of this evolving pogrom in Nigeria.
I am copying this letter to Her majesty the Queen and head of Commonwealth of Nations. Yours sincerely.
Dr. Eke Eke We had hoped to avoid the prying eyes of the police and other security agencies but to our surprise General Muhammadu Buhari GCFR was able to track us down. He insisted on delivering his special “Not Guilty” plea and exculpation:
“I’m not interested in amassing wealth, I’ve never been and that is why I don’t own oil wells and foreign accounts etc. This is the very reason that I’m not in collusion with anyone to share or embezzle the wealth of this nation. As a retired Head of State, my pension, savings, farms and other entitlements are sufficient to cater for my family. Remember, I don’t have seven wives and eighty children.
My only reason to take up leadership of this nation is to do the most I can, to do the things that others couldn’t sum up the will to do and without same this nation will continue to pour our honey into a basket and always be left with nothing. I may not be the best, I have my shortfalls but my intentions are always sincere and noble.
I’m up and against the supposed owners of this nation who want this nation to continue to be the plantation of their political bracket. They have far reaching powers, influence and control than you can ever imagine. There’s nothing that they cannot do when they reach a decision and the best part is the fact that you will see their smiling faces but unknown to you that their hands are at work against the wellbeing of the nation.
You may think that I am the devil but the devil is right there in your midst and shaking hands with you, they can arm-twist anyone and have their way. We wanted to save in the time of abundance but they will not let us. We wanted to repair our refineries for sixteen years but they will not let us. We wanted to enforce beautiful policies to secure this nation’s economy but still they will not let us.
Today, we are saving irrespective of what they say or do. We are making our refineries work and diversifying our economy irrespective of what they say or do. We are enforcing policies that keep the hands of monkeys out of our general pot irrespective of what they say or do. The job is not perfect neither is it complete, but we are definitely on it and we will not give up.
Nigeria cannot survive with the conscienceless and overbearing influence of these supposed owners of Nigeria, who surreptitiously command every facet of our nation’s socioeconomic and political life. Join me in the rescue of this nation or join anyone who you believe without a doubt that same can stop the owners of Nigeria from destroying this nation.
Make no mistakes about this, 2019 is between Nigeria and the supposed owners of Nigeria. The choice is yours.  J.K. Randle 