The National Bureau of Statistics releases GDP figures for the second quarter of 2018 this morning showing that the country’s economic growth continues to under-perform. For a country that needs a 7.0 to 10 percent growth rate over period years, a sub-two percent growth only tends to deepen poverty in the long run especially with a higher population growth rate. It is estimated that the country’s share of population living below US$5.5 a day currently stands at 92.1 percent, the worst performance of any country globally. Ahead of the release of the figures, the nation’s stats Chief, Yemi Kale, expressed surprise at the slow pace of growth. “Surprisingly, I expected the numbers to be much better but it is looking very similar to the first quarter. I think the economy is struggling out of recession and that is what the numbers are showing,” kale said in a statement. In the first quarter, the country’s economy had only managed to 1.95 percent growth down from the 2.11 percent in fourth quarter of 2017. Even though growth in the oil sector has recovered significantly, thanks to relative peace achieved in the Niger Delta and higher oil prices in the international markets, the non-oil sector continues to struggle. Non-oil sector grew at a paltry 0.8 percent in the first quarter and that growth is not much different in the second. To get the non-oil sector firing again, the federal government must go beyond the cosmetic populist reforms touted in a pre-election which does not aid productivity even if it tends to win votes. Consumer confidence has been hit badly by two years of double digit inflation and consequently many manufacturing companies are struggling. Growth in the agriculture sectors has also been constrained by the herdsmen crisis. But instead of devising solutions the engineer faster economic growth, the country’s politicians are engaged in a ‘do or die’ battle of politics without policies. Even though the International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects the country’s economy to expand positively by 2.1 percent for 2018, chances are high that the country could fall below the threshold considering it is a pre-election year and focus has shifted from engineering economic growth into winning votes. Speaking on how the election fever affects economic growth, Yemi Kale notes that the political season could be both positive and negative for economy. “Positive in the sense that if the atmosphere is not too toxic, then there will be increase in economic activities; people will be spending, politicians will be spending and there will be a bit more money in the hands of consumer and the economy tends to benefit from that,” Kale said. On the other hand, when the political season is toxic, “foreign investors will get scared, they will be taking their money, I think that is what is happening in the Nigeria stock Exchange (NSE), and for the local investors, they will apply the wait and see approach,” kale explained. Comparing Nigeria with the United States, kale said unlike in the U.S where investors know that despite the election uncertainties, the economy is structured to work in a particular way and the system continues to work. “But in Nigeria we understand that the system and the virtual system are tied to whoever wins, so everybody is nervous; who is going to win? Will the person change the policy? And so when it gets toxic it has a way of squeezing the economy,” kale concluded. Performance of the stock market so far is an indication that the political season is not having a positive impact on economic growth. The stock market is already down about 7.94 percent this year as equity investors flee the country’s increasingly toxic political environment. Already the CBN has been forced to increase the sales of dollars in the interbank market to stem a possible fall in the value of the naira as investors get nervous in the midst rising political tensions and slowing economic growth. Endurance Okafor 