The summer transfer window has closed for Premier League sides, but which signings made the headlines in terms of fees paid. Premier League, regarded as the richest league in the world. However, if there is something money can’t buy, it’s time. The transfer window closed on Thursday, 9th of August, while top clubs looked to bolster their chances of winning titles, weaker teams looked for players who could help them avoid relegation. Here, we look at 10 most expensive transfers done by English clubs in the summer transfer window of 2018. Kepa Arrizabalaga (£71.6m) Chelsea At the age of 23, the Spanish international Kepa Arrizabalaga is now the most expensive goalkeeper in the football history. Chelsea broke the bank to pay his release clause from Athletico Bilbao, offering him a mega deal of 7 years, with about £10m a year as wages. Having spent all his life at Bilbao, he would surely have bigger shoes to fill at Stamford Bridge as former Chelsea number 1, Thibaut Courtois, has already secured a move to Real Madrid. Alisson (£66m) Liverpool After the disasters of last year’s champions league final, Liverpool was in the market for a world class first choice goalkeeper and in Allison they have got one. He had a tremendous Season at AS Roma last year and would be hoping to carry the same form to England and could be a boost to Liverpool Premier league title challenge this year. Riyad Mahrez (£60m) Manchester City Mahrez was Manchester City’s only major signing of the summer, sealing a £60m move from Leicester after missing out on a switch to the Etihad Stadium in January. The Algerian would add another dimension to the already formidable attack of Manchester City. Pre-season shows his seamless integration into the side and he would only get better under the guidance of Pep Guardiola. Jorginho (£53m) Chelsea For the most parts of the transfer season, Jorginho was linked with a move to Manchester City though, in the end, he opted to join his old boss Maurizio Sarri at Chelsea. He was instrumental to Sarri’s system in Napoli and it would be interesting to see how he integrates with his new teammates. Naby Keita (52.8m) Liverpool It is many months since Liverpool confirmed their deal for Naby Keita, but he finally gets to make his competitive debut this weekend. The little midfielder shone at RB Leipzig. Now the challenge is to have the same kind of impact at Liverpool. Fred (£52.5m) Manchester United “A team without a Brazilian is not a team”, said Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho while being asked about his transfer plans and looking back he certainly has lived up to his words. Fred is United’s only major signing this season. His versatility and work-rate might prove to be crucial in his partnership with Paul Pogba and Nemanja Matić in the midfield. Fabinho (£43.7m) Liverpool Fabinho to solve defensive woes and it’s the same story every year for AS Monaco. Another one of Monaco’s young prospects sold at a hefty price. He can be the answer to Liverpool’s defensive woes as his versatility to play as a defensive midfielder and right back gives options to Jürgen Klopp. His partnership with Nabi Keita in the midfield would dictate the season for Liverpool. Felipe Anderson (£42m) West Ham After years of transfer rumours linking him to different clubs, the 25-year old Brazilian finally joined West Ham United. West Ham has spent big this summer and Felipe Anderson along with Jack Wilshere will be their main men for the season. He was ignored from Brazil’s world cup squad and proving himself in EPL would surely boost his chances of joining the national team. Richarlison (£40m) Everton Just after a season at Watford, Richarlison has switched clubs again. The price tag might have raised a few eyebrows but his exponential growth in recent years cannot be ignored. As a left winger who can also play as a target man, he is going to be the player that defines Everton’s season this year. However, it remains to be seen how he integrates into the Merseyside club. Jean Michaël Seri (£35m) Fulham Last summer, his move to Barcelona was almost certain only to be cancelled in the end. However, this time he has a much difficult task at hand and would be crucial to the newly Promoted Fulham’s survival in the top flight. His past performances at Nice was incredible, but his adaptation to the physicality of Premier League would decide his season.  Anthony Nlebem 