As part of Greensprings School’s campaign to encourage growth mindset in students, with an aim to enable them become more innovative in solving global problems; the Year 10 Business Studies students of Greensprings School have launched a business outfit called the GreenyG Mini-Mart Enterprise. GreenyG Mini-Mart is a one stop shop for items ranging from stationeries to snacks and fresh fruits etc. It is located at a strategic part of Lekki for easy access to the boarding students. It is the first of its kind by Greensprings School students. The GreenyG Mini-Mart was set up by the students to meet the needs of students, staff and parents as well as honing the entrepreneurial skills of the children. Bola Kolade, Head of School, Lekki campus while speaking at the launch of the enterprise, said children can achieve greatness if they are provided with the right environment, sometimes all they need is a reminder that, their future lies in the choices they make. Kolade said that the students took part in the Schools Enterprise Challenge, a project which is aimed at promoting entrepreneurship among students. She further explained the process they underwent to birth the enterprise: “After carrying out market research with potential customers and analysing their competitors the “student-preneurs” as they are called, set up the GreenyG Mini-Mart enterprise”. Helen Brocklesby, director of Education, Greensprings School while responding to a question about how the enterprise will be sustained, said “aside other measures, we encourage our parents to support this project by visiting the GreenyG mini-mart whenever they are on campus.” Brocklesby stressed the need to cultivate and maintain a culture of entrepreneurship in Africa, stating that when it comes to the promise of growth in Africa, progress has become less a question of what can be achieved – and more of a question of what can’t we achieve? “In achieving this, we at Greensprings School look forward to producing the next generation of thought leaders and business executives in Nigeria and Africa at large” she added. The school Enterprise challenge is an international business programme for schools run by the educational charity teach a Man to Fish. The educational charity guides and supports teachers and students to plan and set up real sustainable school businesses. The program afford students the opportunity to gain hands-on experience in running a business and generating profits to help support their school or a social cause of their choice. Schools across the globe have set up an amazing variety of businesses via the instrumentality of this programme. In 2017, more than 6000 schools from over 100 countries registered to take part in the competition.  The businesses set up by students ranged from fly fishing in Belize, to an inter-schools newspaper in India and a car wash in South Africa.  