The Secretariat of the Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP has observed with shock the invasion of the National Assembly by men of the State Security Services SSS and the Nigerian Police in continuation of the series of desperation and show of shame by the outgoing Muhammadu Buhari led Federal Government to violently, unlawfully and undemocratically take over the leadership of the National Assembly, a plot it failed to achieve on the democratic turf.  In the early hours of today, hooded and masked men of the SSS and the Police accomplices barricaded the entrance of the National Assembly premises with a view to stopping all pro-democracy Senators and members of the House of Representatives including all staff of the National Assembly from gaining entrance into the complex and into their offices. Ostensibly, this was to pave way for the minority APC Senators to be smuggled into the National Assembly to execute the democratically impossible plot of removing the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and his Deputy Ike Ekweremadu from office.  Yet again the coupists and enemies of democracy failed. Brave and courageous pro-democracy Senators and Representatives fought their way through the evil and anti-democratic barricades at the risk of their lives and ensured that our precious democracy is safeguarded. Nigerians are grateful to them.  The CUPP is aware that the plotters  shamelessly accepted  to execute this brief in the absence of President Muhammadu Buhari so as to afford the President the needed alibi that he did not have a hand in the undemocratic events of today. We have seen through his façade of pontificating to love democracy while plotting to cross democratic red lines. Nigerians are indeed grossly disappointed.  Nigerians will recall the events of stealing of the Senate Mace during plenary and the simultaneous siege on the homes of the Senate President and Deputy Senate President and now this. President Buhari has never loved democracy, he toppled democratic rule in 1983. He is at it again, but this time by the resilience of Nigerians and the protection of God, he will fail.  The international Community is called upon now to beam their searchlight on the events happening in Nigeria before President Buhari plunges Nigeria into crises in particular and the world into the worst humanitarian crisis of all time. President Buhari knows that Nigerians have rejected him. He is now very desperate. He is baring all his despotic and tyrannical credentials. He has put the 2019 general elections in jeopardy and the totality of all his actions is to see that elections do not hold as that is the only way he can keep a hold on power. Nigerians shall continue to be vigilant to chase out a failed President before he eventually turns Nigeria into a failed State. As we Welcome the sack of of the DG SSS Lawal Daura we call on the govt to immediately arrest him and his accomplices in APC from possible escape from justice for their  many evil acts against our democracy while waiting to see that the Acting President also sack the  Inspector General of the Nigerian Police to help restore the confidence of Nigerians in our democratic institutions that men like Former DG SSS nearly rubbished. 