The leadership of the National Assembly has confirmed that no date has been fixed for the reconvening both legislative chambers to consider the N242 billion 2019 budget for the conduct of next year’s General Election. In a statement on Tuesday, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara attributed the postponement to the inability of the meeting between the Joint Senate and House of Representatives Committees on Electoral Matters and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The statement signed on their behalf by their media aides Yusuph Olaniyonu and
Turaki Hassan respectively, pointed out that the joint committees were also expected to meet with the joint committees on Appropriations, Loans and Debts on the Eurobond loan request. According to them, there was no basis for reconvening since the joint panels were yet to meet and submit their report. The statement reads: “The Senate President, Dr. Abubakar Bukola Saraki and Speaker, House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, have directed that we inform all Senators, Honorable members and the public that a date has not been set for the reconvening of the Senate and the House of Representatives to consider the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) 2019 elections budget request forwarded by President Muhammadu Buhari on July 17, 2018. “The leadership of the two chambers had met and agreed to reconvene to consider the proposal this week before which a meeting between the Joint Senate and House of Representatives Committees on Electoral Matters and officials of the INEC must have held on or before Monday August 13, 2018. “The joint committees were also expected to meet with the joint Senate and House Committees on Appropriations, Loans and Debts on the Eurobond loan request after which two reports would have been ready for presentation in the two chambers. “However, no such meeting had taken place yet as a result of which both Senate and House of Representatives cannot reconvene as there is no report to consider. “Until the Committees have a ready report for the consideration of the two chambers, it will be most irresponsible to recall members from recess especially those that may have travelled to Saudi Arabia for the Hajj”. Last week, both chambers of the National Assembly had indicated that it may reconvene plenary this week to consider the 2019 election budget of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). This followed a meeting of the National Assembly leadership with top management of the Commission.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 