Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki, has assured qualified youths in the state of preferential treatment in the new economic order taking shape in the state.
Obaseki gave the assurance during the courtesy visit by the Association of Esan Professionals (AEP), at Government House, in Benin City.
He said youths sponsored by AEP for training on welding and fabrication would be linked to firms where their skills would be put to effective use.
“I want to assure you that we will support you and give priority to the youth whose training on welding and fabrication you sponsored, particularly on the projects we are working on.
“I believe that the modular refinery where work has already started will require fabrication work. We will be introducing them to our partners in that transaction,” the governor told his guests.
He commended members of the association for sponsoring youths for the training, noting, “I thank you for your selflessness and interest in our people. You have been able to raise money from your own resources to train youth on welding and fabrication and it is most commendable.”
“Thank you for the effort you are making. I want to inform you that we will obtain their data for our job portal, EdoJobs, and see how we can match them with jobs in the state,” he added.
Earlier, President of the association, Sam Obaze, explained that the group’s decision to sponsor 10 youths from Esanland at the Petroleum Technology Institute (PTI) in Warri, was to complement governor Obaseki’s initiative to engage youths in productive activity.
Obaze said, “I wish to reiterate that your desire to engage Edo youths productively received a boost when 10 Esan youths, sponsored by our association, were decorated with PTI’s Skills Acquisition Proficiency Certificates in welding and fabrication, after nine months of training.”
He commended the governor for reinstating the Onojie of Uromi, noting, “the people of Esanland thank you most sincerely for this gesture and wish to assure you of our continuous and sustained support.” 