The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to end its silence and speak out on the N21bn, guns and thousands of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) allegedly found in the residence of the sacked Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Lawal Daura. The party said the discovery has not only exposed the hypocrisy of the Buhari Presidency, but also stripped it of all integrity and brought its deceptive saintly posturing to a disgraceful end. A statement on Saturday by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, stressed that the time is ripe for the Buhari Presidency and its disintegrating APC to tell the nation how these corruption acts were allegedly perpetrated under an administration that lay claim to integrity. The sum of N21 billion, no fewer than 400 assault rifles, including other small arms weapons and thousands of PVCs belonging to Niger Republic immigrants were alleged to have been found in the Abuja residence of the sacked head of the secret police. Reacting to the development, Ologbondiyan said: “The world can now see that the PDP has not been raising a false alarm when it alerts that the Buhari Presidency has been using its much hyped fight against corruption and sustained harassment of opposition as a cover to divert public attention from the humongous stealing going on under President Buhari’s official cover. “Nigerians have now seen that while the Buhari Presidency and the APC have been hounding and harassing opposition members with trumped-upcorruption charges to create an impression of integrity and fight against corruption, their agents have been busy frittering away, and warehousing trillions of naira, ostensibly for their 2019 re-election and service their wastefullifestyles, while millions of compatriots wallow in abject poverty across the nation. “Today, the sneaky ways of this Presidency have further been exposed and it must not in any way seek to disown the sacked DSS DG as Nigerians already know that he was merely one out of the numerous agents being used by the APC and Presidency cabal in their nefarious activities, including warehousing money, fake PVCs and weapons to be unleashed during the 2019 elections. “What the APC and the Buhari Presidency should note is the eternal reality that though the truth may be suppressed for a while, it always has a way of showing itself to light at the end. “Nigerians are already aware of the leaked memo detailing alleged underhand oil contracts to the tune of N9 trillion at the NNPC and theMinistry of Petroleum Resources, which are under the directsupervision of Mr. President. “They are already aware of the alleged stealing of over N25 billion, meant for the health needs of the people, from the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) and how the indicted and suspended Executive Secretary was recalled by Mr. President. “They are aware of the alleged diversion of crude oil worth N1.1tr, using 18 unregistered companies; the diversion of N18 billion InternallyDisplaced Person (IDP) funds and billions of unremitted revenue from sale of crude for which there have been deadlock at the FederalAccounts Allocation Committee (FAAC), all of which are being swept under the carpet by the Buhari Presidency”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 