History was made on Thursday, August 30, 2019 when Fela Durotoye emerged as the consensus presidential candidate of a coalition of political parties under the aegis of Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT). At 47, Durotoye cannot be said to be a youth going by the United Nations’ definition of youth, yet he may fit into the bracket in the eyes of Nigerians. The UN, for statistical purposes, defines ‘youth’ “as those persons between the ages of 15 and 24 years, without prejudice to other definitions by Member States”. Before the development, each of the 11 aspirants that make up PACT had traversed the length and breadth of the country making consultations and speaking on their programmes in the event they are elected president in 2019. Prominent among them is Kingsley Moghalu, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), who has, however, pulled out of the Thursday decision. Same as Yele Sowore, another aspirant. Recall that the Nigerian Intervention Movement (NIM), a platform that emerged following former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s advice to President Muhammadu Buhari to exit power in 2019, had aimed at enthronement of youths onto the nation’s political leadership stool. In a letter written to Buhari in January, Obasanjo had listed what he believed was wrong in the current administration, and canvassed a “Third Force” to redeem the country. Recently, the NIM, chaired by Olisa Agbakoba, a former national president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), and co-chaired by Abdul Jelil-Tafawa Balewa, adopted Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), a relatively new party, as its platform to contest the 2019 general election. Explaining the reason for the adoption of ANN, Agbakoba said that the party shared in its vision and ideology to build a better Nigeria. “It is trite to state that the majority of Nigerians have been overwhelmed by the extant quality of politics going on in our dear country as manifested by self-serving politics. “For us in NIM, the whole essence of political leadership and government is the welfare and wellbeing of the citizenry,” Agbakoba said. He further said that there was the “need to restore hope to this country”. “The NIM was formed on 28th November 2017 by a new breed leaders of conscience towards breathing a new life of constitutional democracy and good governance trajectory that will engender a new Nigeria that works for all of us,” he said. In his reaction to the 13-page statement issued by Obasanjo advising President Buhari not to seek re-election, Akin Oyebode, a professor of international law and jurisprudence, had said that Nigerians should be grateful to Obasanjo for his intervention at a very critical period in the nation’s history. He had also noted that Nigerians were in a hurry and that they did not want as president a geriatric who would be creating excuses for non-performance. Durotoye’s emergence may have provided the youth the much-needed opportunity to take over power next year. The youth population in Nigeria is estimated to be over 50 percent, one of the highest percentages of youths in any country. A report in November 2016 by Bloomberg stated that “Nigeria’s population reached 182 million this year with more than half its people under 30 years of age”. It is agreed that there is a youth bulge in Nigeria, as such, this segment is supposed to be in the majority in the voting population. For a long time, the Nigerian youths have clamoured for generational power shift. They have argued that power had consistently remained in the hands of the older generation without much to show for it. Following the letter he wrote to Buhari, Obasanjo had initiated a move to galvanise the youth population to take over power from the older generation. On July 25, 2017, young Nigerians marched to protest against age barriers on political posts in Abuja. They marched toward the National Assembly, calling for lawmakers to remove the age barriers on political posts, including the presidency. The 1999 Constitution (as amended) stipulates that the president has to be at least 40, while senators and state governors have to be 35. On Tuesday, May 29, 2018, the President promised he would assent to the bill to pave the way for more young people to contest elections in Nigeria. A day after the pledge, on May 31, the president, in a dramatic way, signed into law the #NotTooYouYoungToRun Bill. He jocularly urged the youths not to run against him but to wait till 2023. The law has reduced the minimum age for presidential candidates from 40 to 35, and state governors and senators from 35 to 30. The age limit for state assembly is now 25. Now that a “youth” has emerged as a consensus candidate for 2019, would that automatically mean that those clamouring for generational power shift would massively vote for him? In the 2015 presidential election, Buhari polled 15,424,921 votes to defeat the then incumbent, Goodluck Jonathan, who had 12,853,162 votes. Total number of registered voters that year was 68,833,476. Now, with the population of youths in Nigeria put at over 100 million, taking over power from the older generation through the ballot should be as easy as ABC. Or shouldn’t it?  Zebulon Agomuo 