Fela Durotoye has emerged as the 2019 presidential consensus candidate under the umbrella of the Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT). PACT which is the coalition of political parties unanimously elected him as their consensus candidate after an election among 11 presidential aspirants who participated in the consensus process. Durotoye 47 years will be flying the flag of Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) on behalf of 10 other aspirants in the 2019 general election The candidates initially involved in the coalition included Kingsley Moghalu, Yele Sowore, Thomas-Wilson Ikubese, Ahmed Buhari, Tope Fasua, and Sina Fagbenro-Byron. Others are Eragbe Anslem, Jaye Gaskia, Mathias Tsado, Victor Ani-Laju, Alistair Soyode, Godstime Sidney Iroabuchi, Clement Jimbo, and Elishama Ideh. The election was monitored and observed by Oby Ezekwezili, Nigeria’s former Minister of Education, who described the process as transparent and credible. In his acceptance speech, Durutoye says he takes this nomination as a Consensus Candidate with great sense of responsibility; knowing that our generation have been entrusted with a mandate to show Nigerians the kind of leadership they truly desire and deserve and to inspire the hope of a better future; a New Nigeria According to him, “The 2019 elections will be a referendum between our past and our future; between the same old change and a New hope, the old and the young, politics and good governance, joblessness and jobs, between politicians and nation builders and between experience and expertise. He commended other presidential aspirants who displayed great humility; understanding knowing that none of us can win as individuals, but by coming together as a team, we bring our unique abilities and diverse strengths to the table; but most importantly, being honourable to put the country first and themselves last. “The truth is, we are better off and stronger together. Our chances of delivering a new Nigeria are stronger if we can come together & be committed to our collective vision of a new Nigeria than our individual ambitions”, he said. Fela Durutoye holds a Bachelors degree (B.Sc.) in Computer Science & Economics along with a Masters degree in Business Administration (MBA) from the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife where he wrote his MBA thesis on The Management of Change in Complex Organisations. He is also an Alumnus of Kennedy School of Government Executive Education program of the prestigious Harvard University, Boston (Massachusetts). He has completed the High Impact Leadership for a Better Society program at the prestigious Yale University, New Haven (Connecticut). Fela also attended the Future Candidate programme at The Leadership Institute, Arlington (Virginia) all in the United States of America in addition to being a certified leadership coach of the John Maxwell Team.  KELECHI EWUZIE 