As 2019 is fast approaching, media practitioners in the country have been reminded that their reportage would determine whether the election would be peaceful, free and fair. Femi Adesina, special adviser on Media and Publicity to the President, stated this during the 2018 press week grand finale/fund raising of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ), Kogi State chapter, for the face-lift of the press centre, adding that it is a matter of the moment in Nigeria, not just for journalists in the traditional media, but also for those in digital media, particularly the social media variant. He cautioned journalists who share information far and wide on platforms like WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram to be weary of what they share. Presenting his paper with the theme: Media and news reporting in an election year,’ Adesina said: “Will the 2019 polls lead to the enthronement of the best hands in different positions at all levels? Will the country remain one entity, or be further divided by the polls? A lot would depend on how the media acquits itself. “One thing the media needs is to be alert to the influx of fake news, and the impact on the outcome of elections. Fake news is made-up of information, concocted, without any authentication. It is fiction masquerading as news. “We have seen many of such in Nigeria. While our
President had his health challenge last year (something common to every mortal), mischief makers, hateful people, were already circulating mendacious information, and backing it up with visuals, which were fabricated by some fecund but devilish minds.” According to him, “Just two days ago, fake news wafted out from the mischief factory, when information began to circulate that President Buhari had written the National Assembly to extend his current holiday by eleven days. The unwary fell for it, not knowing that it was a rehash of a press statement issued by the Presidency in February, last year. “There are many other examples of fake news that rocked the polity, which we can cite. America went to the polls in November 2016. That was an election in which fake news played major role, either to the advantage or detriment of the candidates.” “Statistics show that there were over 10.6 million shares, reactions, comments on fake news about the American election on Facebook alone in 2016.
This development, which straddled all social media platforms, went a long way to shape the outcome of the election”, he further said. Adesina also urged journalists to be weary of some people in the country who foresworn to shape the outcome of the 2019 polls through fake news, adding that they will use the media, both traditional and digital to actualised their goals, while advising journalists to shun the road to Kigali, which he said is the combination of fake news and hate speech.  Victoria Nnakaike, Lokoja 