The major political zones in Benue State ranging from Jechira, Kinsmen of Senator George Akume from Jemgbagh comprising Gboko, Buruku and Tarka, Konshisha, Vandeikya,etc on Monday pledged their unalloyed support to Governor Samuel Ortom ahead of the 2019 general election. Speaking at the Benue Peoples House,Makurdi during a courtesy call on the Governor by Jemgagh Elders Forum of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Sam Tsumba, said the visit was to register their solidarity with the governor and to welcome him back to his former party. Tsumbaexpressed the readiness of Jemgbah to stand behind the governor, owing to his laudable performance in office, stressing that the appointment of many of their sons into key positions including Professor Anthony Ijohor, SAN, as SSG and acting Chairman, Board of Internal Revenue Service, TerzunweAtser could garner support for Governor Ortom in the area. Others, who spoke including elders TarhuleNev, IkyumeYongu and Mbakorlumun Chia for Buruku, Gboko and Tarka said they were solidly behind the governor to continue providing purposeful leadership for Benue people. On his part, a chieftain of the PDP in the state, YandevAmaabai said the party was lucky to have a ‘prodigal son’ who was pushed out of his father’s house empty-handed only to return with much wealth. They also acknowledged the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law as landmark, stressing that the law had helped in no small measure in ending the activities of militia herdsmen. The elders vowed to recall any of their representatives in the State Assembly who is involved in the illegal impeachment move against Governor Samuel Ortom. Responding, Governor Ortom expressed appreciation to the people of Jemgbagh for their show of solidarity, pledging that he would continue to work with them to salvage the state. He noted that impunity should not be allowed to continue to rear its ugly head in the country, stressing that allegations of embezzlement of public funds were ridiculous and those behind such would be put to shame. Governor Ortom commended members representing Buruku and Gboko East constituencies in the State Assembly, NgunanAdingi and NgohembaAgaigbe for their steadfastness in the face of monetary inducements, describing them as worthy ambassadors of women. Secretary to the State Government, Professor Anthony Ijohor, pledged on behalf of government appointees from Jemgbagh, total loyalty to the administration of Governor Ortom. Also, the Nigerian Military recentlycommended Ortom for timely and consistent support to enhance activities of Operation Whirl Stroke in the state.Force Commander of the operation, Major General MutiuYekini gave the commendation when he received Governor Ortom who visited the Air Force Hospital, Makurdi to see soldiers recently attacked by armed herdsmen while on operation. He noted with satisfaction the concern shown by the governor over the welfare of their men, stating that such would spur them to step up their operations. Major General Yekini assured the governor and the entire people of the state of the readiness of their operation to comb areas known to be hideouts for criminal herdsmen in the state and beyond. Governor Ortom in response, applauded the Nigerian Army for the good work it had been doing since the operation was deployed to the state and urged it to maintain the tempo. He also acknowledged the Federal Government for deploying operation Whirl Stroke, pointing out that the performance by men of the operation had largely brought the attacks on Benue communities under control. He, on behalf of the government and people of the state, expressed sympathy with a member of the operation that had lost his life and others wounded during the attack and were receiving treatment in the hospital. Ortom, who also visited the Benue State University Teaching Hospital Makurdi, offered to settle the medical bills of one Miss Margret Ede who was being treated for severe injuries she sustained during a motor accident, which resulted in the amputation of her right hand.  Benjamin Agesan, Makurdi. 