Critical stakeholders in the oil, gas and power sector in Africa are set to meet in October in Cape Town, South Africa at an Oil and Gas Exhibition being put together by Future Energy Africa. The conference tagged Africa’s Integrated Oil, Gas and Energy Transformation, is dedicated to advancing future oil, gas and energy solutions for the continent.  With far reaching industry collaboration, under the patronage of the Department of Energy South Africa, the event is expected to attract leading governments, national and international oil companies and industry experts to provide in-depth analysis and an honest reflection of Africa’s readiness to revolutionize the future. The event is slated for October 1 through 3, the organizers said.  One of the media partners and a speaker at the exhibition, Margaret Nongo-Okojokwu, who is the editor of Orient Energy Review, said the exhibition will bring together African leaders and stakeholders in the energy sector with the intention of providing cutting edge solution to the problems confronting the power and energy sector in Africa.  According to her, over 50 exhibitors, 100 critical speakers, including Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum, Ibe Kwachikwu and 50 participating countries from Africa will be at the exhibition with a view to boosting bilateral trades among African countries.  “Africa has become the most sought after bride with many developed countries now looking towards Africa for investments. At this exhibition, Future Energy Africa exhibition, provides a platform for leading industry figures to interact at the highest level, privately and securely.” Nongo-Okojokwu said.  She said the conference will also provide exhibitors and conference participants with an indispensable source of information, dedicated platform for on-site interview. In his own submission, Mayowa Afe, managing director of Danvic Petroleum international, said the exhibition would provide Nigerian energy companies the opportunity of promoting their companies to the outside world as well as the Nigerian local content drive.  He said so many bad stories had been projected to the outside world about Nigeria. The forthcoming exhibition, Afe said would be an ample opportunity to project entrepreneurs from Nigeria, especially those in the oil and gas sector. 