It has been a week of grief as condolences spewed from across the world over the deaths of two prominent figures, Aretha Franklin, and Kofi Annan. Aretha Franklin, the preacher’s daughter who was described by many Americans in her time as an inspiring symbol of Black equality is dead. The singer whose powerful voice made her the “Queen of Soul” for decades died on Thursday, 16th August, at the age of 76 at her home in Detroit surrounded by family and loved ones after battling advanced pancreatic cancer. On August 12, 2018, it was reported that a “gravely ill” Franklin was bedridden in her Detroit home, surrounded by family and friends. As news of her condition spread, more luminaries paid a visit to express their well wishes, including Stevie Wonder and Jesse Jackson. With hit songs like “Respect” and “Chain of Fools,” she won 18 Grammys and had some 25 gold records. Calling it one of the darkest moments of their lives, Franklin’s family said they were unable to find the appropriate words to express the pain in their hearts. “We have lost the matriarch and rock of our family. The love she had for her children, grandchildren, nieces, nephews, and cousins knew no bounds,” her family said in a statement. Franklin’s father was a Baptist preacher in Detroit, and the gospel singing she heard in his church was her musical foundation. Her uniquely emotional and powerful voice put her at the forefront of 1960s soul music along with Otis Redding, Sam Cooke and Wilson Pickett. Kofi Annan On the other hand, Kofi Annan who was the former Secretary General of the United Nations and Nobel Peace Laureate also passed away on Saturday 18th August after a short illness. Kofi Annan was a global statesman and a deeply committed internationalist who fought throughout his life for a fairer and more peaceful world. During his distinguished career and leadership of the United Nations, he was an ardent champion of peace, sustainable development, human rights and rule of law. After stepping down from the United Nations, he continued to work in the cause of peace through his chairmanship of the Kofi Annan Foundation, and as chair of The Elders, the group founded by Nelson Mandela. He was an inspiration to the young and old alike. “I haven’t gotten over losing Whitney Houston. In fact few days ago I felt so emotional just thinking about her and I’ve been watching her YouTube videos since then. I’ve missed her so much! Now ‘The Queen’ herself? Good music is slowly fading away, and quickly too. Such sweet voice.” –  Maranatha Ngene, Singer.  Sadly this type of talent cannot be willed out, it goes to the grave with the vessel. Lesson: what we do with our God-given gifts while alive is so important to the giver and beneficial to us. She utilized the gift and it was multiplied to her. I pray she is with the Giver. – Beulah-Pat Odeh  Farewell Mama. Thank you for blessing the world with your voice. Rest with angels. – Rita Dominic, actress  Aretha Franklin, Adieu. May your beautiful soul rest in perfect peace. May the peace of the Lord envelope your loved ones. – Ola Coker, Chef  “One can only imagine the voice of an Angel listening to her, her voice without the lyrics relaxes the soul and causes the spirit to rejoice.” – Peter Joseph  “I’ve been around long enough for people to know who I am and what my contributions are. They know me as more than just an artist. I think they know me as a woman as well.” – Aretha Franklin.Rest in peace Queen Of Soul” – Toyin Saraki, Founder/President of Wellbeing Foundation Africa.  Kofi Annan was a ‘purposeful optimist’ who spoke for the voiceless, a diplomat who worked for peace in a tumultuous world, and a leader who dedicated his life to advocating for the liberty and freedom of all mankind. We shall miss him. – Bukola Saraki, Senate President  Kofi Anan. A true African Star that lightened the World stage. – Nathaniel Bassey, Gospel Music Minister  “The world has indeed lost one of its most celebrated diplomats and a charismatic symbol of the United Nations who rose through its ranks to become the first black African Secretary-General for two terms, Mr Kofi Annan. He was an aristocratic style, cool-tempered, elegant and politically savvy person with enormous compassion and a great sense of responsibility to the world; no small wonder he and the UN were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2001. My prayers and thoughts go out to the dear family members he has left behind. May God give you the fortitude to come through this season of bereavement” – Ifeanyi Adefarasin, Co-Pastor, House On The Rock  Desmond Okon 