A major crisis have erupted in the Lagos Chapter of the Accord Party (AP), this is just has Honourable Dauda Kakoare, a member of the House of Representatives representing Mushin Federal Constituency 1, have concluded plan to defect to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), along with several members of the party in the state. Accord party in Lagos state have recently been locked in internal power tussle between the federal lawmaker and some chieftains of the party in the state. Kakoare was said to have frowned at the misappropriation of funds met for the running of the party, while further accusing some leaders of the party of creating divisions in the structure of the party in some local Government Areas, (LGAs) across the state, insisting that some leaders in the outgoing state executive of party should not seek re-election because they had been suspended by the national leadership of the party. However, a sources in the party revealed to Business day that kakoare has finalises arrangement to dump the party for the APC, to enable him secure his re-election into the House of Representatives, adding that he had even told some members of the party who were close to him. The sources further revealed that the deal had been strike before the recent wave of defection from the APC in the country, adding that his recent lukewarm attitude toward issues in the party had justified the claim. “He has signed an agreement with the APC to dump the party and it is because a lot of us have refused to go with him that all this issues are coming up. But the Accord party would remain, he is not funding the party, unlike what is been speculated that he is our financial. All this is because he wants to go back to the Hose of Representatives and I can say that we would remain resolute”. The sources said. However, a National leader of the party who spoke on the condition of anonymity on the plan defection of Kakoare to the APC, said he was not aware of the plan defection, stressing that the lawmaker had been a loyal member of the party for some year and was confident he would remain in the party. “It is not true he is defecting to the APC, I was with him recently, however we are not happy with his recent moves and attempt to postpone the state congress of the party. But Kakoare have worked for the Accord party for some years now, I am sure that he would remain and continue to build the party” The Secretary of the party in the state, Lanre Ogunshola, speaking in an interview with this medium, confirmed the planned defection of the lawmaker, noting that he was aware that the some members of the party was defecting with him, while others have turn down his advances. However, when contacted, Honourable Kakoare denied any plan to defect to the APC, stressing that he remains committed to the party. “I remain loyal member of Accord party for some years now, I am not leaving for APC”.Kakoare said.  Iniobong Iwok 