Unfolding political events in the country are taking a toll on the economy and business, with governance seen focusing more on political crisis than business and economic-related programmes.   This manifested Tuesday at the two-day National Micro Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME) Business Clinic, Lagos edition, which kick-started on Monday at the Teslim Balogun Stadium, in Surulere, Lagos.   Acting President Yemi Osinbajo, who was billed to inaugurate the business clinic as special guest of honour, was absent. The host governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, was also not present at the event.   BusinessDay learnt from sources that the absence of the two influential officials at the event was not unconnected with Tuesday’s threatening political event in Abuja, in which operatives from the DSS and police barricaded the National Assembly, and denied lawmakers and staff access to their offices, for close to two hours.   “We can understand the Acting President’s inability to come. There was an untoward event this morning at the National Assembly complex, which he has to address,” according to a source. The business clinic, which began on Monday, was an initiative of the Office of the Vice President in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment as well as 11 other federal agencies and jointly organised by the Lagos State government. The event was organised to further complement the efforts of the state government towards the expansion of existing MSMEs in Lagos, as well as encourage start-ups by discussing and implementing policies favourable to the growth of small businesses. Olayinka Oladunjoye, Lagos State commissioner for commerce, industry and cooperatives, while speaking about the business event last weekend, said Osinbajo would inaugurate it, and it was to further complement the policy of the state government aimed at promoting MSMEs. “As it is evident to all, the present administration in Lagos State is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring even development of all sectors and the micro, small and medium enterprises clinic will never be an exemption,’’ Oladunjoye said. She expressed confidence that the programme would go a long way in raising a new set of entrepreneurs while the existing ones would be guided on the best steps to take to add value to their efforts. It became obvious to the organisers of the business clinic that everything may not go as planned, when Osinbajo and Ambode who were billed to personally attend, failed to show up. The event was billed to start 8:am, and by 9:00am, the main bowl of the Teslim Balogun Stadium was quite busy with exhibitors, mostly small business owners, who showcased their products and services.   Journalists who had arrived earlier were waiting till about 1.30pm when news filtered in that the Vice President and the state governor would no longer be attending personal, as the governor had been invited to Abuja. Aisha Abubakar, minister of state for trade and investment, who later arrived at the venue of the event, was seen taking a tour of the exhibition stands accompanied by Oladunjoye, Lagos State commissioner for commerce, industry and cooperatives. 