Yozooph Nigeria Limited is a fast- growing Nigerian firm, leading the country’s march to global economy. Yozooph is the vision of Yusuf Owolabi Babalola, a man with humble beginnings who has not only built a strong brand name but has impressively transformed his many companies into major players in some of Nigeria’s key economic sectors. Yusuf is among Nigerian entrepreneurs creating employment opportunities for young citizens, thereby contributing meaningfully to the economy. Yozooph Nigeria Limited, a brand reputed in the property as well as oil and gas sector is the parent company of thriving businesses such as Coolmine Nig Ltd, Builders Nigeria Ltd, Eleven07 Nigeria Ltd and Mobivation Nigeria Ltd., which are subsidiaries. Leading the Yozooph Nigeria brand’s impressive business march to prominence is the Builders Nigeria Ltd, which can best be described as a 21st century construction company of international repute. The highly-rated company is mainly into automated construction and services, a company which is synonymous with finesse and perfection, ultimately earning its iconic reputation by the quality of professionalism and innovations facilitated by its entry into the Nigerian construction sector. At Builders Nigeria Limited, the emphasis is on automated construction and cutting edge innovations. These are now game changers. Builders Nigeria is one of the few shinning lights providing modern construction innovation in Nigeria. This unique edge has helped the company to win many high-profile jobs that competitors in the industry are striving to grab. This arm creates a brand that boasts of world-class construction equipment and large-scale production construction materials. Eleven07 Nigeria Limited, which is the flagship of the Yozooph Nigeria Ltd. brand, is the hospitality arm of the Yozooph Group, which includes luxury hotels, restaurants, pool lounges and upscale high tech farming. The Eleven07 brand is another story of excellence in the service industry and hospitality havens. Aside its premium collection of world-class facilities, the winning strategy of the Eleven07 brand is the quality of services offered, which are second to none. Eleven07 restaurant is adding another range of services that provide a digital restaurant service attendant where customers order via a device inside its restaurant and also pay directly without any human assistance. Still in the business of creating value and ensuring local food sufficiency, Eleven07 also has investment in international standard Green House Farming and Animal Husbandry. The company is an active player in the agricultural sector with massive investments in commercial farming. Then, there is the Mobivation Nigeria Ltd., which is another proud member of the Yozooph Nigeria brand. Mobivation is basically an online business and service company.  SEYI JOHN SALAU 