Temitope Olukoya is the CEO of Personal Transport Sales and Services. She is from Ogun State, and the second child among 5 children. She studied Philosophy at University of Lagos. “I never worked for anyone before, I started off buying and selling anything I feel will sell. I didn’t have a focus. I was trying to find my part. With consistent research, I was able to build business contacts abroad and usually buy things for people on request.” She said. Temitope further tried clothing business but was not satisfied with the money she was making so she kept sourcing for unique products to sell. Then Hoverboard came and a friend told her about it. She sourced for it and she ordered 4 Hoverboards for people on request.  She turned her profit over and being the first to do the business in Lagos, she was selling fast with consistent marketing. “I was able to raise enough capital to expand. I sold on Instagram with my personal page and at a point, I knew this is my line, this is my part, there is a future here. I looked for a name to call the business. I picked a name that won’t limit me just incase Hoverboard stops trending. So my friend and I came up with Personal Transport. I opened a page and registered the company and from there I started sourcing for more rides and focused on leisure rides. Personal Transport just clocked three years, from four Hoverboards, consistent marketing, dedication, focus, setting priorities right, I am where I am today and still striving for greater heights” Temitope says. Types of rides We have variety of rides, some are quite affordable and some are on the high side. It all depends on what our clients can afford. Challenges The challenges I have in business is with Cargo/logistics in general in Nigeria. We import our product by sea and sometimes consignments are delayed in terms of clearing at the Nigerian port. We try to plan ahead of time ahead just in case there is delay. We don’t want a situation it is festive period and our products gets stranded at the port. We also send goods to clients across Nigeria and the logistics we use are quite effective but occasionally delay may arise due to unforeseen circumstances. Response from customers We have good response from Nigerians especially when it comes to trust. People are always sceptical when it comes to “payment before delivery” but for us, our clients don’t even ask, they just trust us and pay. I think it’s because of my transparency on social media. I don’t only advertise the products but I advertise all the process from container arrival, assembling, I show my office, I make videos always, I model myself, I motivate my online followers, I tell my story, I connect with my social media followers. I also think being a lady showcasing her hard-work contributes to the warm acceptance in the market. Products We have so many products for kids and adults. The fastest selling products are cars for little kids. For kids we have Ride on kids cars, Electric Bikes, Scooters, Go kart, Dirt Bike, Drifting Bikes and so on. For adults, we have Harley Motorbike, Quad Bike, Go kart, Dirt Bike and lots more. We just introduced electronic wheel chairs for special people. We are also planning to introduce the fastest tricycle in the world for adults. We have leisure rides for all age range from a baby that can sit, even if the child can’t ride, the parent can use remote control to control movement for the child. For adults, we have four wheelers that is easy to ride and two wheelers. For special people or aged people, we have electronic wheel chair. We have something for everyone. Clients My clients are mostly parents buying something for their kids or fathers who need the adult’s rides for their leisure time. Projection for your business I see my business having showrooms across the nation in a few years. We are currently looking into Abuja and hopefully by God’s Grace we will accomplish it. Parting shot To all upcoming Entrepreneurs, you can start small and grow like I did. Stay consistent, hardworking, dedicated and always set your priorities right. Most importantly be trustworthy and transparent, don’t involve yourself with anything negative that will hinder your blessings.  Kemi Ajumobi 