The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has revealed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) submitted the 2019 General Election budget to the Presidency since February 2018. Consequently, the main opposition party pointed out that the Presidency’s submission of the proposal to the National Assembly, five months after its submission by the Commission, was aimed at executing ‘legislative coup’ on the leadership of the Senate. It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had submitted the N242 billion 2019 elections budget to the National Assembly on July 18, a week to their annual recess. Although the Senate had last week bowed to pressure and revealed that it would reconvene this week to consider the request, the PDP believes this is an orchestrated attempt by the APC-led Federal Government to put the apex legislative chamber in needless controversy. According to PDP, the pressure by the Presidency for the reconvening of the Senate is out of a sinister motive and not for any emergency in the approval of the 2019 election budget. “Investigations by the PDP further confirm that the insistence of the APC-led Federal Government on the emergency reconvening of the National Assembly, ostensibly to consider INEC’s budget for the 2019 election, is part of APC’s thicker plot to execute their premeditated ‘coup’ on the leadership of the Senate,” a statement on Sunday by PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, reads. The party also said it had uncovered a plot by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the cabal in the Buhari Presidency to use compromised security agencies and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to invite, arrest and detain Senate President Bukola Saraki and Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu. “The fresh plot to detain the two presiding officers is part of renewed design to keep them out of circulation, ahead of Senate resumption, so as to enable the heavily induced APC senators, who are now in the minority, to throw up two of their members as Senate President and Deputy Senate President respectively on the excuse that Saraki and Ekweremadu failed to show up for proceedings in the Senate. “The PDP notes that the new plot to cage Saraki and Ekweremadu, in devilish rehash of the Tuesday July 24, 2018 hostage-taking and invasion of their official residences by security agencies is coming after the August 7, 2018 failed attempt to use security forces to take control of the leadership of the Senate. “Apart from plots to arrest and detain Saraki and Ekweremadu, the PDP has also been made aware of plans to use the EFCC and security forces to clamp down on their family members, including their wives and siblings as well as close associate, all in the effort to weaken their resolve. “Furthermore, the PDP counsels Acting President Yemi Osinbajo to stop acting saint, as Nigerians are aware that he is part and parcel of the actors behind the sordid developments playing out in the National Assembly. “The PDP invites Nigerians and the international community to note the activities of the APC and the Buhari Presidency, which have continued to put the unity and stability of our nation as well as our hard-earned democracy under serious stress. “In all, the PDP cautions the APC and power mongers at the Presidency to know that Nigerians have seen through their evil intentions and will continue to firmly resist them by standing for democracy and the unity of our nation at all times,” Ologbondiyan added.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 