The Naira is expected to remain steady in the coming week despite being under increasing pressure. Demand for the dollar has spiked in recent weeks on the back of increased profit taking by portfolio investors as well as Nigerians traveling for summer holidays and those looking for dollars to pay the school fees of their wards abroad. The naira has been quoted as weak as 364 per dollar for investors this week after trading within a range of 362 to 363. On the official market, supported by the central bank, it was quoted at N306.10 to the US$. Traders have told BusinessDay that they expect the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to continue to intervene in the market in a bid to stabilize the naira. “Politically, it would not be wise to allow the naira weaken in a pre-election year. So we expect that the CBN will use its significant wall chest of external reserves to keep the naira stable most unlikely until after the election.” The CBN has about US$47 billion in external reserves The naira has remained largely stable in the last few weeks despite the fact that the currencies of many other emerging market countries have been weakened. The naira has also remained stable despite a decline in investment inflows into the country. Total Investment inflows into the Nigerian economy in the second quarter of 2018 slid to $5.513 billion according data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on Tuesday, 21 August.  Total investment inflows in the second quarter was down 12.53 percent from the previous quarter level, but a 207.62 percent spike compared to the second quarter of 2017. “The decline recorded in the second quarter was as a result of a decline in portfolio and other Investments, which declined by 9.76% and 24.07% respectively,” the NBS said in its capital importation report posted on its website. “The largest amount of capital importation by type was however received through Portfolio investment, which accounted for 74.7 percent or $4.1195b of total capital importation, followed by Other Investment, which accounted for 20.5 percent or $1,132.8m. Foreign Direct Investment FDI, which the country earnestly yearn for to create jobs and boost the struggling economy, accounted for just 4.7 percent or $261.4m of total capital imported for the quarter. 