The world’s leading luxury affinity marketing group, The Luxury Network, has officially announced its plan to introduce its first Business Development Roundtable in Lagos, Nigeria. The Luxury Network Business Development Roundtable which is scheduled to hold on Thursday, 13th of September 2018 at the prestigious Wheatbaker Hotel, is organized to foster relationships, discuss topics on growth opportunities in the Nigerian luxury industry, analyse best practices in affinity marketing, explore real-life business and client development initiatives that boost brand exposure, brand confidence, sales and market share, customer loyalty and levels of client engagement etc. The Luxury Network B2B events which take place all over the world, provide an excellent platform to share and learn about the latest success stories of the network globally and provide a platform to discuss practical partnership and collaboration opportunities, with the view to inspire and support new strategic alliances and partnership opportunities between brands in the global Luxury Industry. The upcoming event will serve as a unique forum for brands and service providers inside the luxury space in Nigeria, to connect and engage with one another, identify affinity marketing opportunities, form new business alliances, and be at the forefront of a new conversation on luxury inside Nigeria. “This event will give a unique insight into global best practice in affinity marketing, with a focus on our renowned business model and will set the stage to create winning strategies for the Nigerian Luxury market. Together we will explore real-life business and client development initiatives, that boost brand exposure, brand confidence, sales and market share, customer loyalty and levels of client engagement for all parties.” – Cas Ojo, MD, The Luxury Network Nigeria. The core objective of The Luxury Network, is to find synergies and identify business opportunities across a broad range of sectors. Already the network in Nigeria has had a very promising start with high-profile collaborations including: a Harrods Christmas ’17 shopping concierge service at the Wheatbaker Hotel, a collaboration with Nigeria’s foremost fashion designer; House of Deola, and an affiliation with Visa Infinite; the highest tier of Visa cards. The network also supported Porsche’s 70th anniversary celebration with Harrods giveaways and facilitated a lucrative contract between two member brands. These are just a few of the many examples of successful working relationships and upcoming opportunities developing through the network. After many months of market research and analysis, The Luxury Network Nigeria is ready to announce some new members for 2018/19, discuss potential partnership projects between member brands and share a number of very exciting activities in store for the next 12 months. The event is open primarily to The Luxury Network members. A complimentary invitation may be extended to non-members who are interested in joining the network, but spaces are limited and priority will be given to member brands. Over the coming months, The Luxury Network will hold quarterly B2B seminars at differing locations, for decision-making representatives from member brands, to build relationships and plan unique collaborations and partnerships, as part of their annual membership. For more information regarding this event or for media enquiries, interested participants can contact Bukky Karibi-Whyte at bukky@theluxurynetwork.ng 