When the news broke on July 27, 2018 that the ultra modern border facility jointly built by the European Union and Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) has been handed over to Nigeria and Benin Republic, it was well-received across the region. The positive reactions to the handover of the N4.5 billion facility were because it would curb extortions and illegalities that made the border almost impassable over the years. Before the official opening to the public on August 8, 2018, there were over 10 makeshift security ropes between Nigeria and Benin Republic within the border where every passenger, commuter bus and truck must pay to gain entrance or exit the two countries. At the height of the extortion, smugglers who paid good money had their way, passengers can spend over an hour at the border, commuter bus drivers were held hostage for not remitting all the money collected from passengers for stamping, while trucks with loads of goods may be impounded for days because their drivers refused to pay certain amounts demanded by one of the border operatives. It is estimated that over 20 percent of the 360 million population of West Africa passes through the border annually, as well as over N100 million are extorted from passengers, commuter buses and trucks that pass through the border annually. Moreover, Nigeria has lost millions of naira to leakages caused by the lack of world class facilities and illegalities perpetrated by officials who took advantage of the porosity in the system to enrich themselves. A survey by Borderless Africa, an immigration support service provider, across the West African borders in 2017, revealed that Seme was the most notorious of all the borders in the region because of the high level extortion, harassments and smuggling that are unabated at the border. However, the survey also discovered that passengers, trucks and commuter buses pay more at the Nigerian end of the border without receipts and are often intimidated to make such illegal payments. But with the right facilities in places such as scanner for trucks, quarantine office, accommodation for immigration, custom and police officers, passport office, underground prison for criminals, simple detention office for those with minor offences, border post, car park among other conveniences, all eyes are now on security operatives. Now, it takes between five to 10 minutes to stamp in or out a whole lot of passengers, while trucks spend less than 20 minutes in the automated scanner, man-hour is regained as journeys are shorter now with about two hours gained from delays caused by lack of facilities. The biggest blow to the perpetrators of illegalities at the border now is the growing awareness of the right of free entry and exit across the region in line with the ECOWAS Protocol on Free Movement, which also encourages citizens traveling across the borders to now refute monetary demands and favours from border security operatives. Martins Olugu, an immigration retiree and security expert, noted that the once juicy border posting, which most immigration, customs and other border operatives bribe their way to get, may not be as juicy as it used to be with the new facility in place. He thinks that travelers who are excited by the functionality of the new facilities are now more watchful and willing to report illegalities and the border operatives across the two countries know this. “There is going to be a scapegoat, and border officials know this, especially at the Nigerian end, where the fight against corruption is on. So, everybody will comply for now”, he said. But the concerns for many travelers who have experienced the new facility and testified to its functionality, are the sustenance of the feat and maintenance of the facility to ensure continued seamless travel experience at the border. Alieu Secka, CEO, Gambia Chamber of Commerce and Industry and member of Team Africa, which campaigns for seamless travel across Africa, decried that sustenance and maintenance are the issues. According to him, Senegal and The Gambia had a similar big show last March, with several ministers from both countries dubbed free-movement day, but same harassment and corruption should insist on the functionality and sustainability of the facility be appointing maintenance prevail today at the border. Learning from the Senegal-Gambia failed experience, he suggested that governments of Nigeria and Benin Republic company to manage it, while firing erring officials at the border post to serve as deterrent to others. 