The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and, indeed, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration would do well to abide by the principle of “live and let live” ahead of the 2019 general election. This is the view of analysts following some developments which tend to portray the government as intolerable of the opposition. The advice also goes to state governors across the country who may be tempted to employ the instrument of intimidation and “Machiavellian ways” as Nigeria inches toward the elections. The elections next year should not be a reason to use instrument of coercion against perceived opponents. With the notice of election by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the collection of forms for all elections by political parties at the Commission’s headquarters in line with released timetable and schedule of activities for the 2019 general election, the stage has been well set for the exercise. The major events being expected now are party primaries which, according to the INEC schedules, are expected to be rounded off on October 7, 2018, including resolution of disputes arising from the primaries. As expected, most of the 91 political parties have begun to make preparations to beat the timetable. However, aspirants for different positions have continued with their consultations across the country. One of the issues that now agitate the minds of observers is the possibility of a credible election. The readiness of the government, both at the federal and state levels, to play liberal and allow the opposition parties carry out their campaign without hindrances has become an issue of concern. The refusal by sitting governments to allow the opposition the use of public arenas for their political rallies, from the look of things, appears to be the major battlefront ahead of the elections. During the gubernatorial election in Ekiti State last July, the decision of the Ayodele Fayose-led administration in the state to deny the chieftains of the APC access to the Akure International Airport for their last-minute rally before the election drew wild outrage. By the same token, Fayose’s decision to commandeer all the public transporters to the Government House, impounding their buses, just to ensure that APC faithful would not find it easy to get to the venue of the mega rally was also flayed. Many observers wondered why a sitting government should be so intolerant to the point of blocking a facility that is meant for the public all in the name of politics. Fayose got a bruised neck for that action. Now, for the Federal Government, through the Federal Capital Territory Administration, to toe that same condemnable path is not a good sign for the 2019 elections. The APC-led Federal Government last Tuesday was said to have prevented Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso from using the Eagle Square and the Old Parade Ground, Abuja, as venue for his formal declaration as presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Kwankwaso was said to have secured approval for the use of the venue, but in a twist of events, the FCTA administration, through the managers of the facility, Integrated Facility Management Services Limited, was to later quash the earlier approval. Kwankwaso clearly blamed the cancellation on the FG. “We at the Kwankwaso Campaign Council see the development as a handiwork of the government in power who will not see anything good in growing our fledgling democracy as a no level-playing field has been created to allow for the viable opposition in the country,” his campaign organization said. Apart from denial of use of the facility, state-owned security personnel stayed away from the event that eventually held at a private facility, Chinda Hotel, Abuja. Instead of policemen, the Askarawan, the security arm of the Kwankwasiya, was on ground to ensure that there was no breach of peace. An analyst, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the most annoying part of the shenanigan was the flimsy excuse given to withdraw the approval earlier given on the use of Eagle Square. “They talked about the day being a working day and that the event would disrupt the usual workflow of the federal secretariat. This is infantile and a mockery of our democracy. I thought that Nigeria had passed this level,” the analyst said. With the development, there is the fear that more of such denials would come and state governments may replicate it, which may also engender tension in the polity. The former governor of Kano State and senator representing Kano Central has been in a running battle with the leadership of the APC. In June, while the party was at the Eagle Square, Abuja, for its convention, Kwankwaso decided to visit Atiku Abubakar, one of the presidential aspirants on the PDP platform. Explaining his reason for staying away from the convention in a statement, Kwankwaso said, “I wish to inform the leadership of the party and the general public that we had wanted to be part of the national convention but regrettably all the congresses that we conducted at the wards, local government councils and at the state level were not recognised by the outgoing national executive council of the party. Therefore, I felt that presenting ourselves at such an important event will not be in the overall interest of the entire convention that is assuming we are allowed access into the convention ground.” His disagreement with the APC culminated in his defection, on July 4, to the PDP. Analysts have expressed fears that the treatment meted out to Kwankwaso may signal a trend that the Federal Government may employ against members of other parties in the run-up to the elections. Analysts also fear that this form of intolerance can trigger crisis and can lead to radicalism in society. They also urge state governments to allow the opposition parties in their domain to conduct their activities without provocation and intimidation. A situation where a state government insists that no other party would hold rallies in any part or certain parts of the state may provoke altercations or employment of harmful objects. 