As Nigeria continues to grapple with the unending challenges in her education space with its attendant socio-economic implications, experts have indentified need to revisit the issue of funding for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) education across all levels. The issue of short funding, they say, has failed to equip students with the right skills needed to compete globally. According to them, the federal government has consistently failed in its responsibility to fund STEM education which would have propel Nigeria to the height of being one of the 20 largest economies in the world by the year 2020. Ibilola Amao, principal consultant, Lonadek Oil and Gas said that at the moment the federal government has put little or no resources towards actualising the vision 2020 as it pertains to STEM education . According to her, “If we could take 20 to 30 per cent of the money being spent or shared by politicians into education, Nigeria will not be where it is today. Countries that have succeeded have on an annual basis, increased their budgetary allocation on education”. Amao while speaking at the closing ceremony of a one week Vision 2020 youth empowerment initiative summer camp on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM), for select public schools students in Lagos, said the  essence of the STEM summer camp was to encourage talents to become game changers and problem solvers for a new Nigeria. She further opined that the programme also aimed to help students develop and implement innovative ideas that can make real life impact on the society, and also expose them to career opportunities available in the STEM industries such as Energy, Infrastructure, Manufacturing, Engineering, Agriculture, Technology sectors of the economy. She called on the managers of the economy to ensure that the 2019 budget will be a total deviation from what we have at hand, adding that there should be an increase in human capital development. Vision 2020 is a youth and national development initiative which commenced in May 2006. The initiative was aimed at developing leadership, entrepreneurial, professional and vocational skills among Nigerian youths, especially in the area of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM), and also provides them exposure to industry. Toyin Cameron, Public Affairs Manager for SASOL in her charge to the participants emphasised the need for youths to embrace the act of personal branding. “Youths at this stage should begin to create a brand and profile that they would be proud of in future,” she said. She urged them to act with seriousness on the knowledge and experiences they have garnered from the STEM camp for the betterment of themselves and Nigeria in general. The programme hosted about 41 students from 16 secondary schools in Lagos state. The camp comprised of classroom sessions, where students were exposed to STEM skills such as Robotics, STEM in the Society, Digital Marketing, Renewable Energy, Health and Safety. The summer camp programme created opportunity to enlighten and empower the students with STEM skills which can be further harnessed to solving challenges in our community.  KELECHI EWUZIE 