The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun state appears to have deepens, this is just has several chieftains and members of the party yesterday defected to the Action Democratic Party (ADP). Recently the APC in Osun state have been plague in internal crisis over the recent controversial governorship primary which was won by the state current Chief of Staff of Gboyega Oyetola, admits agitations from other aspirants who alleged that the process was manipulated to favour him. However, in a release to the media yesterday and sign by the Deputy state Chairman, Azeez Issa Adesiji and several state executives, accuses the state governor Aregbeso Rauf of side-lining the party leaders in administration of the state, while further accusing the governor of refusing to make appointments into parastatals and other positions after assumption of his first and second tenure in office. The statement further accused the state governor of initiating anti-masses policies which had further impoverished the masses in the state, stressing that it had evident that the APC chairman in the state worked for the emergency of Oyetola in the governorship primaries. “We are leaving the party, It has been observed that the APC administration  under the watch  of prince Adegboyega   famodun is gradually  losing its credibility and becoming unpopular  due to his  insensitivity and insincerity and double standard hypocrisy and a stooge to a few people  who allow s personal  interest  to over-ride  the wishes  of the majority of our party members. “In some cases, he was directed to work for alliance for democracy in Ondo state against the APC candidate and at the onset of this transition. Preparation the chairman have been working underneath for the chairman of Alhaji Isiaka  Oyetola . “Several meeting were held both in Lagos and Oyo with some leaders on how to work for the success of the above candidate at all cost. We challenge him to deny all this allegations. “The once robust and highly and highly structured Osun state chapter of the APC is deeply embroiled with series of crisis resulting from high handedness from the executives arm of government that claimed lack of confident in the state executives of the party.  For no reason, the governor refuses to interact or meet with the executives since 2014 till Date”.   