The Nigerian Army said it has arrested one of the wanted Boko Haram suspect, years after he and over a hundred others were so declared. The suspect, Maje Lawan, who occupied the 96th position on the list of wanted insurgents, was arrested at Banki village, Borno State. This was as the Army said two suspected terrorist elements were killed by fighting troops on ambush operation in the state. Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Texas Chukwu , a brigadier general who made the disclosed this in a statement said the suspect was undergoing interrogation, and will be handed over to appropriate authorities afterwards. “Troops of operation Lafiya Dole on 4 August 2018 have arrested a wanted Boko Haram suspect, Maje Lawan at Banki in Borno State”, Chukwu said. “The suspect believed to be number 96 on the wanted list earlier published by the Army was apprehended after he infiltrated into the Internally Displaced Persons camp in the area. “The suspect is currently undergoing preliminary investigation and will be handed over to the appropriate authority for further action. According to Chukwu, “The publicArmy arrest wanted Boko Haram commander,kill 2 insurgents, ‘unspecified’ number of bandits action.” On the killing of suspected militias and terrorists, he noted thus: “Troops of 222 Battalion deployed in operation Lafiya Dole on 2 August 2018 while on ambush operation around Malari village Borno State neutralized two Boko Haram terrorists while others flee into the bush. “Troops deployed in operation Whirl Stroke on 4 August 2018 while on clearance operation along Gbajimba – Akor axis in Guma Local Government Area of Benue State encountered armed militia men with large herds of cattle. “The troops dislodged the armed militia men from their camp following a superior fire power. “Unspecified number of the armed militia men have been suspected to be killed by the troops while others escaped into nearby bushes with gun shot wounds. “Efforts are on to get other fleeing members of the armed militia men by the troops.” The following items were receivers during the separate operations, according to the Army: 10 bicycles, 1 AK 47 rifle, 2 AK 47 rifle magazines, 60 rounds of 7.62 mm special ammunition, as well as 5 motorcycles.  Stella Enenche Abuja 