African World Airlines (AWA) has disclosed plans to expand its operations within Nigeria, thereby connecting more cities within the country. The airline which currently operates only the Lagos and Abuja route to Accra, says in the next few years, some other states in the country will be covered by the airline. Speaking during the airline’s Top travel agents trade forum, Kingsley Chima, Country manager, Africa World Airlines Nigeria, told BusinessDay that in the next few years, the airline plans to connect more cities in Nigeria with its eyes on Port Harcourt and Kano airports. “With the new Ghana airport terminal which will be launched and open for business next month, we want to bring passengers from there to the rest of the world. Next year, we will start our expansion growth. London flight will come in, followed by United States operations,” Chima said. Speaking on the growth of the company in Nigeria, he said “This year marks our five years of operations in Nigeria. We came in December 2013 and we have been operating on the Lagos route since then. We currently do four daily flights from Lagos to Accra, while from Abuja, it is once daily. In all, we do five daily flights from Nigeria. “We have grown over the years. When we came in, we were doing a single flight daily into Lagos but now we are doing four each day into Lagos. Our Abuja routes started last year June.” Chima said the airline has a total of six aircraft and is currently operating from Nigeria to Accra, Accra to Freetown, and to Monrovia, adding that its long haul flight is planned for next year. He noted that the airline is leveraging on its safety records, on time departure and choice as its unique selling points. On its contribution to the Nigerian market he said, “We have done a lot in Nigeria. We have created employment in Nigeria and all our personnel here are Nigerians. We have created 21 direct employments and over 80 indirect employments. For our Corporate Social Responsibility, we are focused on education. We visit schools and see where we can help. “We have given out stationaries to schools and discounted tickets to personnel. The Ghana community at Ilupeju, Lagos recommended a school we could help, so we are doing a project at the school in conjunction with the Ghana community.”  IFEOMA OKEKE 