Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, says the only way to change the circumstances of Nigeria was for political and religious leaders across all layers of government and religious divides to be exemplary in their responsibilities to their followers. Ugwuanyi, who spoke at a thanksgiving service held at the Adoration Ministry of Enugu, to mark the recent Supreme Court judgment affirming his victory in the governorship elections, said it was only by living by examples worthy of emulation that leaders could effectively mobilise the people for peace and development. The governor restated his commitment to exemplary leadership anchored on inclusiveness and transparency, and noted that although the demands of leadership might be overwhelming, especially in a challenged society like Nigeria, leaders will accomplish a lot more if they deliberately and positively mobilise the energy of the people towards a clearly defined goal. “I am here to thank and appreciate God because He alone provides the inspiration and motivation that has enabled us achieve what we have achieved so far. When we came into government, our goal was to ensure that the people feel our impact long after we had left office. I am happy that with the prayers of each and every one of us here, we are achieving what we have set out to achieve,” he said. While inviting those that went to court to challenge his 2015 election victory to join hands with his government to uplift the state, he also expressed his gratitude to the Ministry for its support and unceasing prayers for the success of his administration, noting that it was as a result of God’s mercies and special grace that the victory at the Supreme Court was achieved. He called on the people to sustain their prayers, especially as the 2019 elections gather momentum, and promised to sustain the tempo of infrastructure development in all parts of the state, should his mandate be renewed by the people come 2019. Earlier during his Homily, the spiritual director of Adoration Ministry, Ejike Mbaka, extolled the virtues of leadership of Governor Ugwuanyi and pledged the continued support and prayers of his Ministry towards ensuring success of the administration in the state. Mbaka described Governor Ugwuanyi as exemplary, especially in the inclusiveness of his government and the judicious way he had managed the resources of the state at a time of national economic slide. 