President of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria, CIIN, Eddie Efekoha, has called for more youths to embrace insurance as courses in their schools so as to get a proper grasp of the profession and its many benefits to the society. He stated this while addressing participants at the Annual Insurance Family Picnic recently held at the Eleko Beach in Lagos. Efekoha stated that the next generation has a critical role in the development and growth of the insurance industry as a good number of the products and services being offered by insurance companies today are being tailored to fit into the lifestyle of the millennial. He opined that for them to have true knowledge of the key role Insurance has to play in the society, it is only fitting that they learn insurance from their early years so as to be able to equally and efficiently propagate its benefits passionately. The president equally commended the secretariat of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria and the committee responsible for putting together the Annual Insurance Family Picnic, stating that recreation is a key driver of optimum performance. He said “Being relaxed, at peace with yourself, confident and being emotionally neutral, are the keys to successful performance in almost everything. I urge you to ingrain some form of recreational activity into your everyday lives. Make it a necessity, not an objective.’’. Efekoha also pointed out that the institute recognizes the importance of recreation and this has led to it drawing up a calendar filled with recreational activities as well as knowledge sharing sessions. He concluded by urging insurance practitioners present to unite under one umbrella in order to effectively tackle the challenges facing the insurance industry in order for insurance to take its pride of place as a key contributor to the growth of the economy. Richard Borokini, director general of the Institute, stated that the event was just one of the many contributions of the institute to the growth of the insurance industry in Nigeria and that the Institute would continue to churn out more knowledge sharing events as well as recreational activities as part of its commitment to providing world-class manpower for the growth of the international business community. The Highlight of the Annual Insurance Family Picnic, an annual recreational event organized by the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria for the insurance industry for premium relaxation and unwinding with family and friends, saw the PILA strikers triumph over the Eddie Bombers team by five goals to three in a novelty football match. 