The immediate past national chairman of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Ahmed Makarfi, on Monday said he had what it takes to deliver the party in the forthcoming presidential election. Makarfi, who spoke during his consultation tour to the Edo State chapter of the party in Benin-City, said he was not seeing the party’s ticket based on his position as the former National Chairman of the party but because he believes he is qualified and has what it takes to rule the nation. “I am not seeking presidential nomination because I was the national chairman. I was a leading aspirant in 2007, but I stepped down to work for the party. So, I am in the race because I believe I am qualified as other aspirants,” he said. According to him, “I was a governor for eight years and a Senator. I was also the national chairman of PDP. Among the aspirants, I am the only person that has the experience of managing the party at the national level. “I am not a starter and it is not because you entrusted me with the party that I now want to run. But with all that happened, I did not say PDP had done wrong to me, let me find shelter somewhere. I have stayed with you and will continue to stay with you.” The former senator, who added that he warned the party when they were about handing it over to Ali Modu Sherrif who run it aground, saying he was later, called upon to savage the party and build it to where it is today. He however, promised to restructure the country if nominated the party flag bearer and subsequently win the election. The presidential aspirant, who said he was a believer in restructuring, noted that except the country is structured “the cord that binds and holds us as a nation is threatened”. Makarfi, who accused the APC-led Federal Government of only targeting the opposition party members in its fight against corruption, opined that the level of corruption in the present government would be made open by the time the party takes over government in 2019. While calling on the party and the delegates not to choose a candidate based on money, but credibility and goodwill, he noted that past leaders have always won election based on credibility, integrity and goodwill which he (Makarfi) also has. He promised to address, the poor condition of roads across the country, tackle insecurity, economic challenge of the country, if elected. Responding, the state chairman of the party, Dan Orbih, assured that they would do the needful ‎after listening to all the aspirants. He appealed to the aspirants to focus on issues and move away from running others down.  IDRIS UMAR MOMOH, BENIN 