The National Home Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP), which commenced in 2016, has only been beneficial to 24 out of 36 states of the federation, and the remaining 12 states feel they are being treated partially.
As of Wednesday, the programme was currently feeding 8.6 million pupils in 24 states across Nigeria, 4.9 percent growth from 8.3 million pupils in May 2018. The states currently involved in the programme are Taraba, Plateau, Gombe, Bauchi, Borno, Jigawa, Kano, Niger, Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina, Osun, Ogun, Oyo, Ondo, Delta, Anambra, Enugu, Imo, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Cross River, and Benue. The states excluded are Rivers, Bayelsa, Sokoto, Kebbi, Yobe, Kogi, Nassarawa, Kwara, Lagos, Ekiti, Edo, and Adamawa. “Why not 36 states,” a concerned citizen asked on social media. “How will I know why my state was not included? Is it only 24 states that voted for President Muhammadu Buhari? Such selective approach is not befitting a man of his approach,” another citizen complained. A citizen of Rivers State said for his state, “Buhari and APC, what has Rivers State done to Nigeria, as it is always excluded in anything that may bring help to the people. The sharing of Abacha loot and the N5,000 for the aged were all excluded in Rivers State, and now feeding of school children.” On the reason why Lagos is not included for now, deputy governor, Idiat Adebule, at a 2018 Ministerial Press Briefing of the Ministry of Education said they were planning properly to ensure no student was left out as the number of students in Lagos State schools was about the number of students in five or six states put together. Nevertheless, Nigerians are filled with doubts as they think the programme is all falsehood and are ignorant about the list of schools benefitting in their states. “I see Plateau State. Please avail us with the names of schools that benefit from this programme, because I have not seen any,” a Plateau citizen said. The objective of the NHGSF programme among others is to improve child nutrition and health. As many children have poor nutrition and worrying health status owing to poverty, which affects the outcome of learning. A total of N900 billion was appropriated for the National Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) in 2016 and 2017; with N500 billion appropriated for 2016 and N400 billion appropriated for 2017.
The school-feeding component of this programme aims to support states to feed collectively, making it the largest school-feeding programme of its kind in Africa. 