Simba Agric and Power Products Industries Limited, one of the India companies involved in a partnership with Kano farmers participating in a scheme packaged for the purpose of mechanizing agriculture practice in the state, has assured of its readiness to deliver high-quality tractors. In addition to delivering high quality tractors, the company says it is also prepared to provide after sale service to its ‘FarmTract’ tractor brand, in order to ensure the durability of all the units of tractors that would be purchased from the company. Akshay Talwar, head of operations of the company gave the assurance in a speech delivered on Monday in Kano, during the official flag –off of some of the tractors set to be supply to farmers participating in MECA-NIRSAL T4F scheme being supported by the Kano State Government. Talwar said that his company which has also always been in the forefront of deploying the best global brand of tractors recognized the need to offer tractors manufactured with the latest technology to its customers. Giving an insight into the capacity of the company to deliver on its promise, the head of the company, revealed that the company remains one of the leading tractor manufacturer in India, as well as a highly acclaimed global brand. He also assured the farmers and Kano State Government that the company has in store enough spare parts in it Lagos, Kaduna, Abuja, Maiduguri, Yola, Sokoto, and Kano branches, to meet the need of its customers. In his address, Faruk Rabiu Mud, chairman, All Farmers Association of Nigeria (AFAN), disclosed that Kano state required over 5000 tractors to fully mechanize the agriculture sector in the state. He expressed the readiness of the farmers in the state to make the scheme sustainable through  adequate and timely repayment of loan facility that will be extended to them under the programme, in addition to taking adequate care of the tractors. In the same vein,  I.B Gashinbaki, group country director, MECA, a consultant firm behind the partnership commended the companies participating in the scheme for their commitment to it successful take off. The Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, had during the occasion said his administration is providing the sum of #132 million for the take –off of the tractor acquisition programme, as a way of ensuring that programme succeeded. 