TriciaBiz, one of Nigeria’s leading business coaches, in partnership with Naijabrandchick, an Instagram coach, is set to host its next ‘Business Growth Workshop’ in Accra, Ghana. Scheduled for August 17, the workshop/training is aimed at boosting growth and efficacy amongst entrepreneurs in Africa by getting them to think critically about their business, analyze different business elements such as customer, SWOT analysis, product and service, long-term goal, etc. The ‘Business Growth Workshop’, a one-day workshop launched recently with the key theme of building smarter and sustainable businesses, started with Kigali, Rwanda, and will move to Accra, Nairobi, Lagos, Abuja, and Port Harcourt. The first training at Kigali held on July 24, 2018 and took participants through how to leverage social media to create awareness and grow their businesses. With plans to spread over a timeframe of three months, these trainings seek to empower business owners and improve their quality of product and service delivery, whilst focusing on the key elements that drive business growth, such as customer, structure, pricing, marketing, innovation pipeline, business model, etc. Sub-Saharan Africa is the region with by far the highest number of people involved in the early-stage entrepreneurial activity (TEA), with Zambia and Nigeria leading the world rankings, according to GEM Global Entrepreneurship Monitor Annual Report. The region also accounts for highest number of failed enterprises. To bridge this gap, there is the increased need for business education. “The ‘Business Growth Workshop’ was conceptualized due to the increasing need for accessible business education for small and medium enterprises,” said Tricia Ikponmwonba, the organiser. One of the participants from the first training, Alexia Uwera Mupende, general manager of Waka Fitness, a leading fitness company in Rwanda, said, “This training was very eye-opening and helped the team come up with unique ways to market our services and also innovative services we can offer to our clients to stay relevant and competitive. The training was so instructive and I like the fact that it was very practical.” Interested participants are asked to visit the TriciaBiz for further inquiries. 