In what appears like a desperate move, the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress, APC has accused Senate President, Bukola Saraki of breaching article 21 of the party constitution. APC asked Saraki to respond within 48 hours why disciplinary action ought not to be taken against him for breaching article 21 of the constitution of the party. This came moments after the Senate President along with Kwara State Governor, Abdufatah Ahmed and others announced their defection from the APC. The party in a resolution signed by the National Secretary of the party, Mai Buni published on one of it’s official social media platforms, said the Senate President had allegedly flouted the laws of the party with his activities. According to the resolution, some of the allegations raised against him are that, “he encouraged and facilitated by providing an enabling environment for the defection of some senators who are members of the APC to the other opposition Parties. “That you have deliberately refused to screen nominees for appointments submitted by Mr President who are members of the party from being confirmed by the senate. This has caused untold embarrassment and ridicule to the party and the government. “That you have organized a public rally in your state where members of the party urged you to decamp to PDP. That as a follow up to the above the Kwara state governor who is known to be your staunch supporter had made public pronouncements suggesting that he will decamp from the party as an indicator to your formal defection. ” That you used the office of the senate President to cause avoidable delays in the budgetary process and passage of the appropriation act into law thereby frustrating the implementation of the party’s manifesto and programmes and frustrating the APC led Federal Government in the actualization of the campaign promises of the party. “Converting the guest house of the senate President to meeting points and presiding over anti APC activities in the guest house and encouraging defection of senators from the party and presiding over such meetings and compiling a list of the said defectors including some without their consent. “Procuring joint letter of decampees from the APC and reading same on the floor of the senate including some who did not accede to defecting thereby causing embarrassment to the party. “Inspite of the efforts to address grievances to reconcile aggrieved members, you worked against the process and encouraged the formation of an association which sought to impersonate and pass off the name of the party”, the resolution read in parts. The resolution also demanded that the Senate President responds to the allegations or face sanctions.