In support of the United Nations world day against trafficking in persons, Airports Council International (ACI) World and the International Air Transport Association (IATA) emphasized their joint commitment and work to help combat human trafficking. Aviation connects the world, carrying more than four billion passengers a year, but this global network is also used nefariously by traffickers to transport people against their will. Airlines and airports are said to also be determined to assist authorities by reporting suspected human trafficking cases and making it as difficult as possible for the global air transport network to be exploited for this evil trade, which affects some 25 million people annually. The industry is committed to raising awareness, helping to train staff to recognize the signs of trafficking and putting in place reporting protocols to alert the appropriate authorities. “Human trafficking creates misery for millions, and helps fund criminal gangs and terrorism. Aviation is the business of freedom. And we are taking action to help authorities ensure that our global network is not exploited for evil ends. As an industry, we have our eyes open, and are working with governments and law enforcement to stop trafficking. “Through a joint campaign with our airport colleagues, we hope to further mobilize the aviation industry in the fight against this abhorrent trade in people’s lives,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and CEO said. “People trafficking is an appalling crime which we should do all we can to combat. The safety and security of passengers remains all airports’ number one priority and the airport community is determined to work with border authorities and our partners across the world in helping to put a stop to this activity. “We stand together with our airline colleagues in keeping our eyes open to the signs of human trafficking. Many of our airport members are already demonstrating their commitment to the campaign. We continue to strengthen our combined efforts in awareness, training, and reporting,” Angela Gittens, Director General, ACI World said. To mark the United Nations world day against trafficking in persons (30 July), ACI and IATA invited airline and airport co-workers, colleagues and industry partners and supporters to raise awareness of aviation’s commitment to fight trafficking. IATA has also announced that it has entered into an agreement with CFM International (CFM) that will lead to increased competition in the market for maintenance, repair and overhaul services (MRO) on engines manufactured by CFM, a 50/50 partnership between GE and Safran Aircraft Engines. “Airlines spend a tremendous amount of money on the maintenance and repair of aircraft and engines to ensure we are always operating to the highest levels of safety and reliability. This milestone agreement with CFM will lead to increased competition among the providers of parts and services related to the servicing of CFM engines. “We expect increased competition will reduce airline operating costs and help to keep flying affordable. And we hope that this agreement will be an example for other manufacturers to follow,” Alexandre de Juniac, IATA’s Director General and CEO said. Under the agreement, CFM has adopted a set of “Conduct Policies” that will enhance the opportunities available to third-party providers of engine parts and MRO services on the CFM56 and the new LEAP series engines. Among the many elements of the agreement, CFM has agreed on the following: License its Engine Shop Manual to an MRO facility even if it uses non-CFM parts, permit the use of non-CFM parts or repairs by any licensee of the CFM Engine Shop Manual and honour warranty coverage of the CFM components and repairs on a CFM engine even when the engine contains non-CFM parts or repairs. Grant airlines and third-party overhaul facilities the right to use the CFM Engine Shop Manual for without a fee and sell CFM parts and perform all parts repairs even when non-CFM parts or repairs are present in the engine. The agreement includes specific provisions ensuring the implementation of CFM’s commitments with regard to CFM56 series engines which power some 13,400 single-aisle aircraft flying today. CFM has, however, committed to apply the agreement to all commercial engines produced by the company, including engines in its new LEAP Series. GE, moreover, has agreed to apply the Conduct Policies to other commercial aircraft engines that it produces in its own right. Beneficiaries of the agreement include IATA, CFM’s airline customers, aircraft lessors, third-party MRO facilities and parts manufacturers. Based on the agreement, IATA has withdrawn a formal complaint it filed with the Competition Directorate of the European Commission in March 2016.  IFEOMA OKEKE 