The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has cautioned the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole stop his obsession to change the leadership of the Senate, as such is completely out of his reach. The party counsels Oshiomhole to stop his childish tantrums and get educated on the fact that the positions of the Senate President and that of Deputy Senate President do not belong to political parties but to Nigerians, who elect persons into the seats through their elected representatives in the Senate. A statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, on Sunday, urged the APC National Chairman to stop exposing his ignorance and insisted only two-thirds of senators can impeach a Presiding Officer in the National Assembly. Since the defection of Senate President Bukola Saraki from APC to PDP, he has been under intense pressure from the governing party, calling on him to either resign or be impeached. “We know that Oshiomhole is under intense pressure from the Presidency to
overheat the polity, distract the National Assembly members and make as much effort to cause a constitutional crisis in the country, having realized that they cannot win the 2019 general elections. “However, the PDP strongly cautions these desperate power grabbers to note that their actions have unlimited capacity to destroy our democracy. “Nigerians have noted that since his imposition as the factional Chairman
of the APC, Mr. Oshiomhole, has done nothing but spewing hate speeches and officially introducing a thug mentality into the polity, while causing confusion in every sector of our national life, including the Federal Executive Council, the security system, our legislature as well as in his dysfunctional APC, which as an undertaker, he is finally set to bury. “Since Oshiomhole assumed office, the nation has witnessed various unimaginable constitutional infractions, including the invasion of Benue State House of Assembly and the Ekiti state Government House by APC-Controlled federal security agencies, the escalated harassment offederal legislators and persons perceived to be averse to APCs’re-election bid; the siege at the residences of Senate President Bukola
Saraki and Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu by security agencies as well as the recent invasion of the National Assemblyby security operatives. “While the PDP invites Nigerians and the international community to note the activities of Mr. Oshiomhole, as being directed by the Presidency, the party hold firmly that they are fighting a lost battle as they cannot cow Nigerians into changing their resolve to end this nightmare by voting the APC out and returning our nation to the path of peace, national cohesion and economic prosperity, on the platform of the positioned PDP, come 2019,” Ologbondiyan said.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 