Following his emergence as winner of the keenly contested election for the office of the president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Paul Usoro, SAN, is set to take his place as the 29th president of the association come next week. Usoro, who won with a total number of 4509 votes, was ahead of this closest opponent, Arthur obi Okafor, SAN with 86 votes. Okafor had 4423 while the other Presidential candidate in the contest, Professor Ernest Ojukwu, SAN trailed behind with 3313 votes. ABOUT THE PRESIDENT-ELECT The President-elect of the NBA, is the Senior Partner and founder of Paul Usoro & Co (PUC), a top commercial law firm. Usoro is described as the go-to-counsel for complex matters, be it litigation or commercial transactions and the foremost communications lawyer in Nigeria with over 30 years’ experience in legal practice. He is was a member of the NBA Legal Profession Regulation Review Committee set up in 2016 and the founding chairman of the Communication Committee of the Nigerian Bar Association`s Section on Business Law. Paul is a consummate boardroom player and sits on the Boards of several top companies. • ADVOCACY EXPERIENCE Paul’s skills and prowess as a litigator and strategist are nationally and internationally acknowledged. The rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) is in recognition of his advocacy skills. Paul’s litigation practice (election petitions, real property, criminal matters, oil and gas, commercial litigation) cuts across all the superior courts in Nigeria with a vibrant appellate experience. A passionate and intellectual advocate – multinational companies, Nigerian blue-chip companies, political parties/election candidates and high net worth individuals routinely seek Paul’s litigation support and experience. He was pivotal to the recovery of N16billion for Access Bank Plc., in a highly controversial multijurisdictional dispute against a Nigerian company. The dispute involved multiple complex cases: 8 (eight) within Nigeria and a few others spanning over a number of jurisdictions including, the United Kingdom, Greece, Netherland and South Africa. He played the leading role in the negotiation of a global settlement agreement between the parties. Paul was also the strategist and coordinating anchor for the defence of Akwa Ibom State in the Supreme Court oil well matters between Akwa Ibom State on the one hand and Rivers and Cross River States respectively on the other hand. These cases were determined in 2011 and the outcome thereof was Akwa Ibom State’s retention of most of its oil wells that were the bone of contention in the suits. Paul represented the immediate past Group Managing Director of Access Bank, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede and the current Group Managing Director of Access Bank, Herbert Wigwe in a Suit against the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN). The Suit challenged the statutory powers of FRCN to investigate issues of mergers and acquisitions and other business combinations and in particular the acquisition of Intercontinental Bank Plc (IBPLC) by Access Bank Plc. The Court granted all the reliefs claimed and perpetually restrained FRCN from investigating the acquisition of IBPLC by Access Bank Plc which was declared a closed transaction. He also represented the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Governor Udom Gabriel Emmanuel and his political party in about 35 pre-election lawsuits from 2015, particularly at the Governorship and National Assembly levels. All the cases were successfully defended by Paul and his Team. Not a single one of those matters was lost at any of the Courts. Paul was the anchor, strategist and coordinator for the defense of Governor Udom Emmanuel in the 2015 Election Petition right from the Tribunal and up to the Supreme Court. The victory at the Supreme Court indeed vindicated the strategy designed by Paul and his Team. The president-elect also championed the amicable resolution of the dispute between Stanbic IBTC Bank, Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria FRCN and the National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion (NOTAP). He played a crucial and leading role in the team that represented a France-based multinational oil servicing company in a landmark litigation against a Nigerian company for the recovery of judgment sums of US$11,628,962.11; US$5, 214,939.98; DM212, 252,751.11; N26, 349,753.61 and US$7,157,865.87. The judgment delivered by the Court of Appeal in the second quarter of 2015 has become alocus classicus in Nigerian jurisprudence on the principles of subrogation of one party for another for purposes of realizing a judgment debt. It is significant to note that Paul was not involved in the proceedings at the High Court of Lagos State which gave rise to this appeal. Indeed, he was engaged for a rescue mission after the appeal had been lodged against the subrogation orders and had to re-engineer the entire strategy of the case for a successful outcome. It is a tribute to his skill that the subrogation orders earlier made against the French Company were completely overturned and it was found not to be liable howsoever for the judgment debts. Indeed, Usoro’s advocacy experience is very robust and diverse. PAUL USORO’s AGENDA: As it relates to Good Governance, the NBA under my leadership shall: 1) Recognise the need to build a credible and effective electoral system. To this end, the NBA will work hard and advocate for the reform of all the institutions that consolidate democracy, with a view to ensuring compliance with the principles of rule of law by all the actors. 2) Develop and execute voter education programme with a view to educating and enlightening legible voters on their role in the 2019 elections. The NBA shall in doing this not lend itself to becoming an appendage of any political party. 3) Develop and execute election-monitoring programme. This programme would be used by the NBA to monitor the 2019 elections using NBA Election Working Group. 4) To monitor election Tribunals as part of a project to be developed and called NBA Electoral Justice Project. This is a project that would be designed to monitor and observe the activities of various elections petitions tribunals, identify the challenges they are facing and advocate for solutions to such challenges as may be identified. 5) Monitor the 2019 general elections with a view to ensuring that the conduct of the elections and participation thereat comply with the principles of rule of law and due process. 6) Develop programmes and projects relating to Child Justice Administration especially as it relates to adoption and implementation of Child Rights Act at the State level; and 7) Advocate for the strengthening of the legal and institutional framework for Anti-Corruption Crusade and also the entrenchment of international best practices in the detection and investigation of corrupt practices and financial crimes. • TRANSACTIONAL EXPERIENCE Apart from earning his stripes as a seasoned and exceptionally skilled advocate, Paul is an experienced transaction lawyer whose records and accomplishments include the world-acclaimed, first-ever and all-round successful Nigerian Digital Mobile Spectrum Auction conducted in 2000. The transaction earned the Federal Government of Nigeria US$855,000,000.00 for 3 Digital Mobile Licences. Paul is indeed generally acknowledged as Nigeria’s leading communications lawyer. As an ICT law expert, Paul has been involved in virtually all major transactions and regulatory reforms in the Nigerian communications sector. In 2003, Paul Usoro drafted the Nigerian Communications Act 2003, a robust and enduring piece of legislation that regulates the communications industry till date. He has been the primary adviser to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) in most of its reform initiatives till date. He served as Legal Consultant to NCC, and was the only African and the sole Legal practitioner in the six-member Auction Control Team for the Global Systems of Mobile Communications (GSM) Spectrum Licence Auction that introduced Econet Wireless Networks Limited (now Airtel), MTN Communications Limited and NITEL GSM to the Nigerian market. Additional core ICT regulatory and transaction experiences are highlighted hereunder: He Drafted the Nigerian Communications (Enforcement Processes etc.) Regulations, 2005; Drafted the Annual Operating Levy Regulations, 2014; Acted as sole legal consultant to the NCC in respect of the Mobile Number Portability and drafted the Mobile Number Portability Regulations, 2014 as part of that assignment; Preparation, on behalf of NCC, of a National Carrier Licence and an International Gateway Licences for NITEL, a hitherto unlicensed monopoly; Acted as lead legal consultants to NCC for the Second National Operator licensing processes, including the auction and preparation of the 3 SNO licences; the process produced Globacom Limited as Nigeria’s Second National Carrier; Preparation of the Interconnectivity Agreement between NITEL and licensed private network operators; Represented NITEL in the negotiation of the Construction and Management Agreement for the laying of the SAT-3/SAFE/WASC trans-continental fibre-optic cable project which spans the sub-Saharan African Continent and extends to Far East Asia through Southern Africa, with European landing points.  This was the first trans-continental cable project in sub-Saharan Africa. On account of Paul’s acknowledged eminence as Nigeria’s leading Communications Lawyer, Akwa Ibom State Government appointed and relied on him to manage its portfolio investment in Airtel in 2001. Paul negotiated this investment, valued as at the date of entry at the sum of US$75,000,000.00.  Up to May 2006, Paul sat on the Board of Airtel as a Director representing Akwa Ibom State.  Akwa Ibom State Government cashed out most of its investments in this enterprise in 2006, in the transaction by which Celtel BV successfully invested over US$1,000,000,000, by way of share purchase from existing shareholders and injected fresh capital into Airtel (“Celtel Transaction”), which transaction was chiefly negotiated by Paul. The State indeed made multiple returns on its investment amount. A founding Secretary General, Telecommunications Law Association, Usoro was named ‘Best Pan African Telecoms Lawyer of All Times’ by the IT and Telecom Digest, Nigeria’s leading and one of Africa’s foremost ICT magazines. Paul Usoro, SAN, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) President. • BOARDROOM EXPERIENCE Paul is a consummate boardroom person whose deep analytical mind and illustrious leadership skills are well appreciated in all the Boards he sits. He has, at various times, served on the Boards of several companies such as Premium Pensions Ltd, CR Services (Credit Bureau) Plc (representing Zenith Bank Plc), Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc and currently sits on the Boards of PZ Cussons Plc., Airtel Networks Limited, Marina Securities Ltd and Access Bank Plc. Usoro is a pioneer director of Airtel Nigeria Limited, Nigeria’s leading mobile telephone company, having been appointed to the Company’s Board in 2001, then  known as Econet Wireless Networks Limited; the company has over the years undergone major ownership and structural changes prior to being acquired by Bharti Airtel of India in 2010.  Paul is the only surviving pioneer director of the company and has headed the Board’s Audit Committee since the entry of Bharti Airtel till date. A director of Access Bank Plc, one of Nigeria’s leading banks, from 2014, Paul chairs the Board’s Remuneration Committee and Governance & Nomination Committee. He also serves as a member of the Board’s Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee and Credit & Finance Committee. Paul was appointed as a director of PZ Cussons in 2011; he chairs the People & Governance Committee of the Board. • PUBLIC SERVICE The erstwhile President of Nigeria, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan, GCFR, in 2011, appointed Paul a pioneer director on the board of Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) – Nigeria’s sole power trading organization, fully-owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria.  The NBET Board was, at that time chaired by the then Nigeria’s Minister of Finance and the Coordinating Minister of the Economy, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, with the Minister of Power as a member.  Paul was also the pioneer Chairman of the NBET Board’s Audit Committee. In 2012, Paul was appointed by the Minister of Communications Technology into a select Ministerial Committee for the review of Nigeria’s ICT Policy and he played a key role in that Committee’s work, which final work product was approved by the Federal Executive Council. Usoro is also on the Faculty of the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies as an astute trainer on telecommunications law and practice. NBA Activities Paul was the pioneer Chairman of the Communications Committee of the NBA Section of Business Law (“SBL”). Supported by Paul, PUC is actively involved in the sponsorship of SBL activities. The Firm produced the Chairman of the SBL between 2010 and 2011, with the total support of Paul Usoro, SAN. • PAPERS AND SCHOLARLY WORKS AA Telecommunications Law and Regulations”. Paper presented at the Legal Advisers/Law Officers Course organized by the Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies. • Drafting Commercial Agreements and Banking Documents: Telecommunications Contracts”. Paper presented annually from 2003 to Course participants at Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, Lagos Campus. • Frontloading under Akwa Ibom State High Court (Civil Procedure) Rules 2009”.  Lead Presentation at Joint Workshop by the 3 Nigerian Bar Association Branches (Uyo, Ikot Ekpene and Eket) in Akwa Ibom State. • Legal Practice and the Prospects of Litigation in Nigeria”. Lead Paper presented at a Session of the Nigerian Bar Association’s Section of Legal Practice Maiden Conference in Abuja. • Licensing Procedures under Communications Act 2003”.  Paper presented at the Nigerian Bar Association, Port Harcourt Branch Bar Seminar/Law Week in Port Harcourt. • Emerging Nigerian Communications Industry and the Role of Lawyers”.  Paper presented at the 2004 Annual Conference of the Nigerian Bar Association held in Abuja. • Creating an Enabling Legal Environment for Information Technology. Presented at NITDA organized “E-Nigeria” Workshop in Abuja. • Nigerian Issues on Interconnectivity Arrangements. Presented at the International Conference on Electronic Commerce and Telecommunications in Lagos. • Commentary on Paper presented by Chief E A O Idowu titled “Bills of Lading: Practical Implications – Today and Tomorrow”.  Commentary made at 6th Annual Maritime Seminar for Judges in Abuja. • Legal Significance of and Issues on Electronic Bill of Lading. Presented at the Annual Maritime Seminar for Judges in Abuja. • Legal Framework for Introduction of E-Commerce. Presented at US Embassy organized CTO Week in Lagos. • Digital Mobile Licence Auction: The Success Story and the Challenges therefrom. Presented at the Lagos Business School in Lagos. • Drafting Commercial Agreements Banking Documents: Telecommunications Contracts. Presented at Nigerian Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, Lagos. 