The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State at the weekend warned ward chairmen of the party along with their local executive committees, against rejecting prospective members as the party braces up for membership registration and revalidation. Chairman of the party, Ishola Balogun-Fulani, gave the warning while addressing newsmen in Ilorin, the state capital, on their preparedness for the exercise. Balogun-Fulani, whose leadership of Kwara APC is recognised by court, stressed that his leadership was ready to instill discipline and necessary sanction on any ward chairman who shows favouritism or intimidate old or prospective members who come for the registration. He said the development followed the recent directive by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party for the commencement of registration of new members and revalidation of the identities of existing ones. Balogun-Fulani commended the NWC for the initiative saying it would bring tremendous benefits to the party in Kwara State where according to him there are indications that many Kwarans are yearning to join the party. Just as well, he noted that revalidation of membership will assist the party in identifying its loyal members in the state. “As a loyal and responsible party in Kwara State under our leadership, I therefore, direct all our ward chairmen in conjunction with their working committees to be fully ready for the registration of new members and revalidation of old members in their respective wards. The party register will be distributed to every ward. All old members coming for revalidation should produce for sighting their membership card for authentication. “I use this medium to inform our registration desk not to reject anyone who wants to register, for the party is ready to instill discipline and necessary sanction on any ward chairman that shows favouritism or intimidation to anyone,” he said. According to him, “Our doors are wide open, we therefore implore all Kwara residents to come out in large numbers and take advantage of this open-door and register in their wards as bonafide members of the APC.” Asked how his group would secure the register needed for the exercise given the fact that the NWC had “dissolved” them, Balogun-Fulani said the APC has in stock party registration materials but would still look forward to receiving more documents from the NWC. “We are sensitising our members to get ready so that any day the national executive says we should commence we would not be caught napping,” he said.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin 