The governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi has promised to not only give Enugu the leadership that will stand a test of time, but to also make it one of the best places to live and invest in West Africa. Ugwuanyi disclosed this in Enugu, while declaring open a 3-day retreat designed to bring together all key policy makers of the state, which include the Enugu State Economic Advisory committee, all members of the state Executive Council, permanent secretaries, Heads of Agencies of key sectors and heads of tertiary institutions owned by the state, to a new 5-year development plan that will meet the emerging needs of the people of the state. The retreat, which was sponsored by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) in partnership with Enugu State Government, would also create an environment for aligning strategies and goals of sectors to the vision of the governor. The governor, who commended UNICEF for her commitment and participation in various development programmes in the state, said the state government would continue to partner UNICEF in the state. He said that although the last three years were successful because the government had boosted the state IGR base, improved on institutions for increased economic development, fought against social vices and corruption among others, there are still many stones that have remainedunturned. “We are still far from meeting all the needs of our people,” he noted. According to the governor, his administration in years to come shall focus on some areas like poverty reduction, youth empowerment and employment, urban and rural upgrade, peace and security, responsive, inclusive and accountable government, among others. “To achieve the goals, this administration intends to adopt these strategies, growing urban and rural infrastructure, upgrading more rural communities to urban status, increasing agricultural productivity, making the state an investment hub, among others,”the governor said. ObiorahIkeh, chairman of Enugu State Economic Advisory Committee, who is also a Rev. Father, spoke on the topic ‘Ethical challenges on governance and bridging the cult of corruption’ advised the heads of government agencies to realise whom they are to the society and make good use of their positions to positively affect the lives of those in the rural areas in the areas of infrastructure development, provision of good drinking water, good roads, electricity, among others. Ikehsaid that the meeting was not about “what we have achieved, but on what must be done to have positive effect on the residents of Enugu State particularly those in the villages for the next five years, with integrity as the key word.” He said that the meeting was also to link the policy trust and strategic goals of the state to governor’s agenda and vision of the state. It was also to jointly draft a frame work for the development of Enugu State economic growth plan where each ministry brings measurable and achievable target for the state government. Earlier, Ibrahim Khalil Conteh, chief of Field Office, UNICEF Enugu, said the organisation would continue to support the government as far as the governor strives to continue the good work he is doing, delivering child-friendly, equity-focused development to the entire Enugu State. Conteh, who was represented by Mauren Zubby Okolo, said: “To maximise the opportunity presented by the review of the strategic plan for economic growth 2019-2021, it would be important to ensure desk review of the situation of children and women in Enugu State, using the Multi Indicator Cluster 2016-2017, among others”.  Regis Anukwuoji, Enugu 