Luno, a global cryptocurrency service provider with very strong presence in Nigeria has welcomed its two millionth customer in the month of August. The company which made the announcement on Thursday, August 9, said the achievement was a result of its simplified approach to virtual currency transactions. The approach aligns with its mission to demystify cryptocurrencies by educating customers on the risks and benefits associated with the technology. “Reaching the two million customers is a significant achievement for us,” Marcus Swanepoel, co-founder and CEO of Luno said in a statement BusinessDay received. “We strongly believe that by making Bitcoin more accessible through education and by offering a user-friendly, safe platform more and more people across the globe can benefit from a better financial system.” With a team of 250+ spread across three main hubs: Singapore, Cape Town and London, Luno now empowers over two million customers in more than 40 countries worldwide. Luno has a very strong presence in Nigeria where it provides customers with services in Bitcoin and Ethereum. Customers in Nigeria can buy and sell cryptocurrencies using the local currency. In the last month alone, more than $302 billion worth of cryptocurrency trades have been completed globally, demonstrating the soaring appetite for the cryptocurrency industry across the world. Bitcoin, the first and most popular cryptocurrency, now exceeds the $125 billion total market cap. “This milestone demonstrates the growing adoption of cryptocurrencies across the globe and reinforces our aim of reimaging a financial system where money is cheaper, faster and safer with open and equal access for everyone,” Swanepoel said. Luno currently offers three core products including Luno Wallet – a consumer payments, cryptocurrency conversion and storage service; Luno Exchange – professional cryptocurrency trading platform; and Luno Enterprise – merchant integration, open API’s, institutional investors.  Luno was founded by CTO Timothy Stranex, a former Google software engineer and CEO Marcus Swanepoel, a former Morgan Stanley banker. 