The new Ghana airport terminal, aviation infrastructures and deliberate policies implemented to drive the sector is pointing the way for Nigeria, which has the population and geographical location to become the regional aviation hub. The new third passenger terminal which will be launched next month has capacity to handle 1,250 passengers an hour. It is equipped with six boarding bridges, a large commercial and retail area, three business lounges and purpose-built transit facilities. Experts say these developments will make it more attractive for airlines to take off and land from Ghana, which is just an hour flight from Nigeria. This will also imply more earnings from landing and parking fees, aviation fuel and other taxes for the Ghana government. Femi Olaoye, an Engineering consultant and aviation expert told BusinessDay that obviously, the tide is shifting in favour of Ghana becoming the regional hub for everything ranging from mining, oil and Gas to aviation and the steps taken to make this happen are clear and results are showing up. “With The ASEAN–China Free Trade Area (ACFTA), I see Ghana becoming the regional player, if Nigeria does not step it up. Aviation doesn’t stand alone; it is directly responsible for business travel. Thus, Ghana showing more seriousness and working towards it, seem the early birds. “Their facility compared to what’s available in Nigeria far outclasses ours. They are more organised, safety is assured and the customer over all travel experience is quite good. So it’s a no brainer for the rest of Africa to go there for regional business meetings and deals,” Olaoye said. He stressed that if Ghana continues on this path, coupled with their economic reforms, in the future, Nigeria’s plot to become the regional air travel hub, may be thwarted. The Kotoka International Airport has been the beneficiary of several infrastructural expansion and upgrade projects but the most ambitious and indeed most important one is the construction of a third passenger terminal. Its construction has been presented by the Ghana Airports Company Limited as its flagship project and this is for good reason. Despite about N800 billion spent to bring Nigeria’s airports, especially the Murtala Muhammed Airport, to international standards through remodelling seven years ago, the airport has been unable to attain a hub status. Ranked as the fifth busiest airport in Africa, with an average of 10, 383,452 passenger traffic achieved in 2017, experts believe that the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), strategically located in Lagos, has all it takes to create an air trans­portation hub for Nigeria. Nigeria is said to be losing billions of dollars an­nually for not being able to tap into the po­tential in its aviation sector. Dondekojo Ayobami, an aviation expert told BusinessDay that with the new terminal, better infrastructures and Bi-lateral Air Service Agreements (BASAs), traffic will move to Ghana. “Ghanaian government tried to get more investors over a year ago. In partnership with the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the government slashed the price of aviation fuel by 20 per cent, remodelled the old Kotoka International terminal and subsequently removed Value-Added Tax (VAT). BusinessDay’s checks show that some Nigerian airlines have been refueling in Ghana and Ghanian Juice packs are currently served on Nigerian flights. A 2015 data by Airport Council International showed 10 of the top airport hubs carrying over half a billion passengers. The first being the hart field Jackson Atlanta International Airport, USA with 101.4 million passengers. Benjing Capital International Airport, China comes second with 89.9 million passengers; Dubai International, UAE ranks third with 78.014 million passen­gers; while the Chicago O’Hare Interna­tional Airport is fourth with 76.9 million passengers. Nick Fadugba, chairman, African Business Aviation Association (AfBAA) noted that what most of these airports have in common is that they are hubs, offering a high number of routes and moving people internationally rather than neces­sarily being the final destination. John Ojikutu, former Commandant of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) told BusinessDay that in order to make Lagos a hub, the national carrier should be on course and compete effectively with the foreign airlines on the active 30 of the 70 BASA routes. “The government and private airlines have failed us; the new national carrier must learn lesson from their failures to enable it to succeed,” Ojikutu added. 