The Assembly gives creatives an opportunity to get advice and insights in a fun and relaxed environment, through its Speed Mentoring Night event series – LEVEL UP!The second edition had the likes of Adenike Ogunlesi, Reze Bonna, Fade Ogunro and Michael Ugwu to name a few as Guest Mentors.   The Third edition will host; Ronke Bamisedun, PR Darling and founder of the BWL Agency, Kene Rapu, Anthony Ekun, award winning marketing and communications specialist and Creative Director of SO&U, Tokyo James, Ani James, founder of AJE Filmworks, Elizabeth Osho, CEO of So.Media, Familusi Akin, Babajide, CEO FAB Group and Nnenna Onyewuchi, Founder of Yellow Brick road and Blackbox Advertising.  LEVEL UP! is a Speed Mentoring Night like no other for creatives working or studying- Fashion, Photography, TV, Media, PR, Advertising or Creative Direction. The eventwill allow 30pre-selected young and established creatives and professionals, meet and connect with8 industry leaders, get career and business advice, show off their portfolios, discuss projects/ideas and network with like-minds.  This is a unique chance to have a chat with trailblazers, seasoned pros, top execs, senior creatives and managers in Africa’s fashion/arts industry directly. Attendees will have timed sessions with each Guest Mentor to get their burning questions off their chests and give their best impressions.  Yoanna ‘pepper’ Chikezie, Founder of The Assembly says; “The idea of the speed mentoring night bridges the gap between young creative talent and seasoned professionals. It also helps one to focus their questions and sales pitch if you like, because just like in real life you only have a small window of opportunity to leave an impression and get the information you need.”  Deadline to apply – 18th August 2018 Event Date: Saturday 25th August 2018 Event Time: 4PM Event Location: The Freeme Space About Us
The Assembly is a community and platform that supports fashion creatives and professionals across Africa. Our vision is to be a catalyst to a thriving eco-system that matches local talent for global success. For more information and images
Email Us: hello@theassemblyhub.com . Visit www.theassemblyhub.com and The Assembly on;
Instagram: @assemblyofficial | Twitter: TheAssemblyHub | Facebook: TheAssemblyHub 