Veteran artiste, Righteousman is doing more of gospel music at the moment but just a few might know there was a time the artiste was more of a conscious music artiste.  In a chat with Bliss recently, the musician however explained he was not really a ‘secular’ musician even before now.  “There was a shift in my music and it wasn’t because I was singing songs that weren’t good. I have never done sex and gang music all my life. I have always been a conscious artiste singing about the life of the common man. I still do that kind of music anyway. When you see things going bad around you, you don’t have to wait for the secular artistes to do something about it first, you have to talk about it first.  “Before now, I was doing 30 percent gospel music and 70 per cent conscious music. But now, I do 90 percent gospel and 10 per cent conscious music.”  Righteousman revealed that his name was another reason behind the kind of songs he had to make.  “I didn’t just follow the route, it was a call. I grew up loving Jesus. My name too was another thing. I was caged. I cannot be called Righteousman and be doing an unrighteous thing. I needed to heed my calling.”  Even as he is into gospel music, Righteousman explained that he is not struggling commercially but has become more successful.  “We are not selling tomatoes. However, I have never been a commercial artiste. I have been playing music for almost three decades. In all these, I have never done anything to sound like this or that person. I have never done anything because it is trending.  “Now that I do gospel, life has been great. There have been a lot of testimonies. You know that in our industry, so many people live fake lives. But that is not me. I can even jump okada. God has been faithful. In fact, I am even more successful now that I am doing gospel. I travel all over the world anytime I want to and I tour the world with Jesus music.”  Few years ago, the artiste dropped a video titled ‘No’, which featured so many Nigerian artistes.  Explaining the reason the video didn’t trend as many had expected, Righteousman blamed it on “Nigerian System”.  “It didn’t trend because this system didn’t allow it. You have something good and because there weren’t naked girls dancing in the video, people didn’t trend. If we had added such, within a week we would have hit one million views. When you have a conscious music, TV and radio stations will not play it. I don’t think I have such money to give to a presenter or a TV owner to air my music,” he said. . 