A Lagos lawmaker, Mr Rasheed Makinde on Thursday passed a vote of confidence on Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos state for outstanding performance. Makinde, member representing Ifako-Ijaiye Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly gave the commendation at the Constituency Stakeholders’ Meeting in Lagos. He singled out Ambode for his administration intervention on inner roads of Ojokoro. The lawmaker, who described Ambode as a responsive governor and  passionate about involving people in policy making, however, called on him  to do more on school, hospital and inner road constructions. According to him, Ambode has constructed no fewer than 35 roads in the constituency among many other projects. “Gov. Ambode has affirmed his pro-activeness by doing very well and we pass a vote of confidence on him, come 2019 elections. The same can be said of the Lagos Assembly. “When he got wind of complaints from my constituency; on the poor state of inner roads after the completion of the jubilee bridge in Abule Egba, he immediately called the contractors to site, to right the wrongs. “We appreciate this prompt remedial and noble action of our governor, the people of Ojokoro never had it this good prior this moment, we will mobilise more votes for him in 2019. “In my constituency, we need more schools, general hospital, stadium and many more,’’ he said. According to him, the space of work may slow down because of the electioneering campaigns, but the governor has affected many lives and communities. Also speaking, a traditional ruler, Chief Bolarinwa Adebayo from Ajegunle in the council said: “Ambode has transformed Lagos to a state of my dream.“ “His ideology is priceless. “I want him to come to Gbeleyi community. The street where my palace is situated is an eye sore.“ Alhaji Azeez Hamzat, the Chairman, Community Development Committee (CDC), Ojokoro also commended Ambode for allowing community participation in his governance. “The governor has been performing creditably well. He has been doing things that former administrations find difficult to do, that is, getting grassroots involved in the government decisions. “The idea of making people select what they want has made him achieve a lot. In the last few years, construction of roads has been massive in almost all the Community Development Areas (CDAs) and councils. “His impacts are felt in all sectors,’’ he said. The community leader, who commended Ambode’s feats in education, transport, road construction and security, however, urged him to intensify efforts on more road constructions. Chief Oladejo Akinloye, the Babaloja-General of Ojokoro, who also commended Ambode and promised massive votes for him in 2019 general elections, called for more transformation of markets in the state. Another resident of the area, Mr Tunde El-Rufia, told NAN that the governor had done a lot in developing the community but that more still beckoned for his attention. 