The planned meeting of the National Assembly leadership over the possible reconvening of the federal legislature to consider the N242 billion 2019 elections budget, was called off. This followed an eight-hour invasion of the National Assembly by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS), who prevented workers, journalists, legislative aides and visitors from gaining access to the main entrance of the National Assembly on Tuesday. In a commando-style, heavily-armed masked agents of the DSS, barricaded all entrances to the Complex. The siege which lasted from 6pm to 2:59pm, was aimed at allowing the All Progressives Congress (APC) senators entrance into the chamber and prevent PDP senators, with a view to impeaching Saraki and Ekweremadu. However, PDP lawmakers got wind of the information and besieged the Complex as early as 6:50am. Although they initially prevented lawmakers from entering the Complex, it took a female member of the House of Representatives from Rivers State, Boma Goodhead, to create a scene by charging on the security agents, daring them to shoot everyone at the gate, before the DSS operatives caved in at exactly 7:15am and allowed the female lawmaker into the Complex. Upon entering, she beckoned on her male colleagues to join her, as they made their way and walked to the lobby. The Presidency had appealed to the National Assembly to cut short its two-month break to consider an approval for N242 billion budget estimates from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for conduct of the 2019 election, which is just seven months away. Lawmakers had embarked on annual recess on July 24 and adjourned till September 25, 2018. President Buhari in the letter dated July 17, 2018 explained that out of the proposed N242,445,322,600 estimate for the 2019 general elections, N164.104 billion should be appropriated through virement this year, while the balance of N78.340billon should be provided for in 2019. The one-hour meeting of the National Assembly leadership which was expected to have another meeting with the leadership of the National Assembly, was however, cancelled. The Clerk of the National Assembly, Mohammed Sani-Omolori, was also denied access to the building, even as top management staff of INEC who arrived the National Assembly Main at exactly 1pm were prevented from gaining entrance. In a swift reaction, Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, condemned the action of the security agents and described the development as a coup against democracy. In a statement jointly signed by the two Presiding Officers of both chambers of the National Assembly, the duo stated that the heavy presence of armed security men who unnecessarily militarized the legislative complex and harassed legislators and the workers in the complex could not be justified in a democracy. The Senate President and Speaker further noted that it was a sad day for democracy as very early in the morning, they got reports backed by video and pictures, from members of staff of the National Assembly, their colleagues from both chambers and other individuals, about the heavy presence of the security personnel who insisted that nobody would enter the complex except certain Senators who were to be conveyed into the complex in a Coaster bus. “By 6.30 am, the reports started coming in and by 7am, there were pictures and video online showing armed security men preventing Senators and Honourable members from coming into the Complex. Some of our colleagues then mobilized other members in both chambers from their respective abode so that they could pressurize the Security men from allowing them to gain entry. “Obviously, the public outcry from Nigerians and members of the international community against this illegality, this desecration of the sanctity of the legislature and this flagrant abuse of powers forced the government to relax the directives given to the security men as they later allowed the legislators to walk from the main gate into the foyer. Still the lawmakers were not allowed to drive in, in their vehicles and were denied access into the main building housing their offices. “It is not clear what the plan of the government is but information reaching us indicated that some Senators who are pro-executive arm are being camped somewhere here in Abuja and they are being compelled to sign an impeachment notice that would later be brought to the Assembly complex. The Senate Chamber will now be forced open to enable an illegal change of leadership take place in the Senate. “It should be noted that the Senate formally adjourned on July 24, 2018 and it stands adjourned. To reconvene, there is a process which has to be followed. Also, it should be clear that these Senators who are camped somewhere know the procedure for changing the leadership of the Senate. Both the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Presidency officials masterminding this illegality know that they do not have the numbers to lawfully carry out this action. “Therefore, we call on members of the international community to view this development as a coup against democracy. This is a throw-back to the inglorious days of military rule where dissent is not tolerated and freedom of association and other fundamental human rights are willfully and carelessly violated. “We urge Nigerians and the international community to condemn this illegal invasion of the National Assembly complex and the attempt to asphyxiate the legislature as undemocratic, uncivilized and irresponsible. “Let us use this opportunity to thank our colleagues in the Senate and House of Representatives who immediately mobilized to resist this coup against democracy. Their action will be recorded as one taken at a time when the soul of this country is being imperiled. They have acted to avert the breakdown of constitutionalism and collapse of the rule of law. They have stood up to dictatorship and demonstrated that this country belongs to all of us. “We also thank members of the press, local and international, and all Nigerians whose support for the cause of democracy have sustained us this far. Following this unpleasant development, the joint leadership meeting slated for this afternoon has been postponed till further notice because under the prevailing circumstances, we cannot guarantee the safety of the 20 members from both chambers expected at the meeting”, Saraki and Dogara stated. Reacting to the sack of the Director General of DSS, Lawal Daura, by Acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, on Tuesday, some lawmakers described him as a fall guy. In his reaction, Chairman Senate Committee on Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dino Melaye, said: “I am not aware of the sack of the DG of DSS. But I want to tell you that when there is conspiration (sic), when there is an agreement to derail democracy, somebody, in other to protect the failing integrity of government, somebody will have to fall. If it is true that the DG DSS has been sacked, he is the fallen man”. Also, Ubali Shittu, who recently defected from APC to PDP said: “That is internal play between themselves. They have cleared and God will continue to punish whoever cheats another person”. Also reacting, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said Osinbajo should shed the idea of using Daura as ‘the fall guy’ for the invasion of the National Assembly. The party insists that the invasion by the DSS and Police was with the absolute knowledge and approval of President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Osinbajo, and the All Progressives Congress (APC), adding that Daura’s sack was an afterthought, diversionary and deceitful. The PDP recalled that it issued series of statements at the weekend alerting Nigerians to the plots against the National Assembly and democracy ahead of President Buhari’s overseas trip noting that the Presidency was silent on all the alarms raised by the Buhari Presidency. “The Presidency’s sack of Daura was a damage-control stunt and a knee-jerk gimmick which came as a response to the national and international outcry against the armed invasion of our legislature by security agents as directed by the Buhari Presidency. “The action of security agents that blocked the National Assembly is treasonable and must attract appropriate sanctions under our law. It is not enough to take populist approach of easing Daura out of office. Our party demands an immediate investigation by an independent panel of inquiry headed by a retired Chief Justice of Nigeria to examine the remote and immediate cause of the invasion. “Moreover, Section 16 of the Legislative House (Powers and Privileges) Act, 2017, provides that any person, who by any act, obstructs members of the National Assembly from performing their legislative duties, is liable and punishable by imprisonment. “Furthermore, Nigerians observed that the invasion was not only by the DSS, but also had the involvement of the Police, whose high command has not received any sanction or reprimand by the Presidency for its serial acts of impunity. “Finally, we commend PDP federal lawmakers, Nigerians, the media as well as the international community who rose in defence of our democracy, even as we remind all not to let down their guards,” the statement reads.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE Abuja 