Celestial Church of Christ (CCC), Ile-Iyanu Parish, Ipaja, Lagos is today celebrating its 2018 harvest themed ‘Divine Blessing’. The shepherd of the church, Superior Evangelist Moses Ajao, speaks with SEYI JOHN SALAU on the theme of the harvest, urging Christians to be bridge-builders by taking the gospel message to the world. Excerpt:  What is your perspective on harvest? Harvest simply refers to the gathering and reaping of things planted in natural time; what has been sown and produced during the year (2 Corinthians 9vs10, Exodus 23vs16). God has planted us as Christians to be fruitful; He created you and me and made us to be fruitful, either by getting your loved ones or wife, or by getting a job, doing business and every other thing in your life, being alive, having a family, and being healthy. So whatever we are doing, we have to thank God for making us fruitful, especially in his vineyard.  What inspired the theme of this year’s harvest, ‘Divine Blessing’? Themes do not just come from human beings; it’s the direction and commandment of God through the Holy Spirit that gives harvests a peculiar meaning and theme. God is the reason why we are celebrating because the church has really experienced God’s favour over the past year. As a church, we have enjoyed God’s faithfulness in terms of the physical blessings, the spiritual life of the worshippers and also the sweet fellowship with God that we experienced. All these gave this year’s theme as harvest of ‘Divine Blessing’.  Is there any biblical justification for harvest? Yes. Matthew 9vs37-38, Leviticus 26vs5, Psalm 10vs37, Isaiah 62vs8-9, Genesis 8vs22, Exodus 23vs10-11, Psalm 85vs12, to mention but a few. All these aforementioned scriptures are the backup for harvest in the Bible. Harvest is not something that is not biblical. In Genesis 8vs22, we can see the importance of harvest, and harvest is all about a period of harvesting what you have sown as human. What we do annually is to align with the theme of the harvest, significantly trusting God for whatever we need as a people and church, believing him for his faithfulness over the years.  What roles should Christians play in today’s world? To me, Christianity is a religion based on the person and teachings of Jesus Christ. Also, Christianity is the belief in Jesus as the son of God and the Messiah. 1 Peter 2vs17 succinctly describes the role of Christians as follows: fear God (our relationship with God); honour all men, that is, our relationship with the world (2 Corinthians 4vs3); love the brotherhood, that is, our relationship with other Christians (John 13vs35). We as Christians must learn to honour the king, which talks about our relationship with those in authority (Acts 5vs29, Romans 13). However, what we notice is that Christians of these days don’t fear God, they don’t show love; instead, they betray and mislead one another. Also, most Christians do not adhere to authority. May the Lord change Christendom.  What does Celestial Church stand for? Celestial Church stands for inculcation, restoration of Christian values into homes/families, and also to encourage family cohesion, peace and stability in homes, neighbourhoods and nations through prayers, counselling, and spiritual ministration. The CCC also stands for the work of unity of all Christians, to worship God Almighty in holiness and reverence and to prepare believers for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ.  What is your advice to Christians and the church at large? As a church, preach the gospel of God through the teaching of Jesus; do not mislead people. The church is meant to absorb and rebrand people for good. As a Christian, do not forget the commandments of God; obey the authority, and fear God. The church at large should have this in mind: that we shall stand individually to account for what we have done on earth. So we must be careful of what we preach. Any practice or teaching that will not glorify God should not be encouraged. And as we come to church, people should understand better that the church does not belong to the pastor, and whatever you do in the church is done in the name of the Lord – you do not look at how other people behave in the church. Once you are in church, know you are there because of the Almighty God and when you feel there are one or two people in the church doing things contrary, just put them in prayers so that God will touch them. However, I also want Christians to note that whatever that is happening in Nigeria, prophetically is something that will make the church in Nigeria to be stronger. The church will conquer and get over these trying times. It is unfortunate that many lives have been lost already and blood is being shed at the moment, but the church in Nigeria has come to stay.  Any word for Nigerians at a time like this? Nigerians should desist from any behaviour that will endanger the lives and property of the people. They should fear God and remember that there is life after death. Do not sell your right, and also pray for the growth of the country Nigeria. I pray as a prophet of God, may the God of Celestial bless this country; may God deliver to us a free and fair election come 2019. God bless Nigeria. 