Nigeria indigenous oil and gas company, Forte Oil recently unveiled its new mobile payment solutions including Order to Delivery (OTD), FO App and an e-Commerce website. The partnership also saw the re-launch of the FO Advantage Card. The company also announced a partnership with Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, which makes payment for products and cardless withdrawals possible at selected Forte Oil service stations through the bank’s *737# USSD code. According to Akin Akinfemiwa, Group Chief Executive Officer, Forte Oil, the purpose of the this new product and services is to create a new world of convenience and in time services for their numerous customers in a bid to maintain their leading position in the Nigerian downstream petroleum sector. Explaining each product, the Akinfemiwa stated in a series of tweets that; “The Order to Delivery (OTD) , enables our customers to engage in seamless end -to-end transactions with very minimal or no human interface and provides a step by step tracking of each transaction from order to Delivery” The OTD has been proven to reduce their turnaround times for various Retail and B2B transactions. This APP was designed to accommodate multiple transactions in a safe and secure manner and without hitches. Akinfemiwa also stated that, “The FO Advantage is a Debit Master Card that works on multiple channels and rewards you to earn points when you buy products at our various retail outlets” “You can also use it for your convenience elsewhere as long as the card is funded via your FO wallet on the FO App. It can also be funded directly from your bank account” “The FO Card is beneficial to existing corporate fleet managers and households as it eliminates disbursement of cash to personnel to buy fuel at retail outlets and hence enhancing accountability in the purchase of fuel and other petroleum products in this regard” In 2014, these two companies had a partnership to launch GTExpress, a comprehensive Agent Banking Service at Forte Oil locations nationwide which has grown in places such as Supermarkets, Schools, Cinemas, Markets and Restaurants.  GTExpress is now rolled out in 43 Forte Oil locations within the region of Lagos mainland, Lagos Island; and across local states like Ogun state, Port Harcourt, Abuja, Akwa Ibom, and Kano. Forte Oil PLC operates over 500 retail outlets in the downstream sector of Nigeria’s Oil and Gas industry, offering a wide range of petroleum products and quality lubricants for various automobiles and machinery. They provide premium petroleum products to all aspects of the economy including industrial, aviation and marine Sectors. 