Every student has a story to tell about their experience in the higher institution. Mine is still being written. Shade a friend of mine is one of those whose story was unending. Recently, she just fed me one of her stories back then in school. “On this faithful day” she said, something usual happened, but with an unusual consequence. I had a roommate then whose name is Bisi. I had always warned her about her temper, but she never gave heed to me. That Monday morning, we woke up late and rushed off to the lecture room, but on getting there, the lecturer slammed the door to our faces and decided to give the class a test. Bisi, who easily gave in to anger turned to me with a smirk on her face. “This is all your fault.” She said. “Really? My fault?  I wasn’t the one who stayed up all night receiving long calls” I replied, “Just shut up. You woke up almost 10 times to pee. That is enough to describe why I’m late and why I’m in this situation. You should have been out here alone.” I stared at her as she ranted. She was so mean when she was angry, but can be so sweet when she wants to. I had never seen such a bitter-sweet person in my whole life. We walked home, exchanging words, until someone collided with her. She didn’t wait to see who it was before she lashed at the person. “How many more stupid people are out there?  Can’t you look while you walk? Even if you are blind, are you as well foolish not to hear voices? I stared at her in astonishment.  She was insulting a strong member of a cult group.  Who she realised who it was, she wasn’t even the least bit concerned. “Oga just watch it. Be careful next time”. “Do you know who you are talking to?  He asked?  “Honestly, I don’t care.  I’m not afraid of anything and anyone. Besides I paid school fees just as you did. There is freedom of speech. No one can take that from me.” He threw his head back and laughed. “This is not the end little girl, watch your back.” I quickly said, “She is joking.  She meant none of it.” “Shut up” he screamed at me. “You both should watch your back” he said leaving me gaping at his back. Wait; did he just say you both? We both?  “I did nothing” I screamed, but he obviously couldn’t hear me.  I turned furiously at my roommate, “Bisi, you can go ahead and look for trouble for all I care, get beaten, raped and all, I don’t care, but don’t drag me into it.”  I was practically shaken by what just happened. I was trembling with fear and anger.  “When those guys threaten you, they make sure they fulfil it. Be silly for all I care, but do not drag me into your messed up life.” I said and walked out on her. We didn’t speak to each other for 3 days. On the fourth night, I had a loud noise at the door. I heard a louder bang this time and that jerked me off the bed. I and my roommate stared at each other in fear. “Who is banging at the door” we both whispered to each other.  The next bang jerked the door open.  We looked at the faces of the guys, they weren’t masked.  One of the faces was familiar and it struck me. The cult guys.  They were here for revenge. The guy we ran into pointed his gun at me. In fear I said, “it’s not me ooo, it’s her.” Pointing to my roommate. Bisi in turn said, “it’s not me oo,  it’s the devil.” This got the guys laughing.  The guy she insulted wasn’t finding it funny.  He pulled her hair, which made her yelp in pain. He slapped her hard on her face; the effect sent her sprawling on the ground. He went for her, hitting and kicking, while she screamed and screamed until she had no strength left to scream. He came at me, as he did, I drew backwards. There was anger in his eyes. As he was about to hit me, one of the guys held his hands.  “She did nothing.  Let her be”. He said.  I shook my head in affirmation, “yes, please I did nothing” he looked hatefully at me and said, “Well, show me your friend and I will tell you who you are. She is your friend, so you must be like her.” I said hurriedly, “no, she is not my friend, she is just my roommate, infact, she is just squatting. She will leave today.” He turned to Bisi’s direction. He turned her over her face was covered with blood.  He reached for her skirt yanking it off her waist.  “Wait, what was he about to do? He wasn’t going to rape her…was he?” I thought. He took off his belt and that sent me sprawling on the floor pleading. “Please, you can’t. The beating is enough.  Please don’t.” He pointed his gun at me, “would you rather, I do it to you?” he asked “Please, No” I said.  I turned to his friends to beg them. “Please don’t let him do it” I begged. The leader intervened saying, “let’s leave. She has learnt her lesson. The bad guy wasn’t about to give in. He said, “I brought you all here, this is my deal, so it will be done my way”.  The leader pointed the gun at him, and he in turn pointed his gun at him. I could hear my heart race.  “This wasn’t about to turn bloody Oh Lord” I prayed. The last guy quickly got into their middle. “Guys we didn’t come here to waste our lives.” let’s just get out of here.  They all left.  Leaving me shaken, my friend battered and my room in a complete mess.  I ran to Bisi’s side.  I looked at her with so much pity. She was beaten beyond recognition. “Just see where your bad mouth and bad temperament has landed you.” she moaned in agreement. She was in the hospital for days. When she was fully recovered, you could bet that there was a change in her attitude.  People surely do like to learn the hard way.  Chinyere Okeke 