The Department of State Services (DSS) has described the news that the sum of N21 billion, 400 assorted and sophisticated arms and light weapons/rifles including thousands of Permanent Voters Card (PVCs) belonging to foreigners were recovered from the houses of the sacked former Director General of DSS, Lawal Daura, as fake news. A statement issued by Tony Opuiyo on behalf of the agency, made available to BusinessDay on Monday, noted that one of the fake videos circulating contains the non-existent items even as he charged the public to disregard such unfounded information. “The attention of the Department of State Services (DSS) has been drawn to the circulation of fake information and videos in which several items were said to have been recovered from the Katsina and Abuja homes of its immediate past Director General, Lawal Daura. “These non-existent items include: Twenty One Billion Naira (N21bn) cash; 400 assorted and sophisticated small arms and light weapons/rifles; and Thousands of Permanent Voters Card (PVC) belonging to Niger Republic immigrants,” the statement said. The DSS pointed out that in another video also in circulation, some persons believed to be personnel of a security outfit were seen forcing open safes stocked with money and the security operatives were described as executing a recovery operation at the Katsina home of the former DGSS. “Consequently, the Service wishes to inform the public that these videos are false and should be disregarded. So far, no such recovery operations have been undertaken by the EFCC or any other security agency at DSS’ office or residences of the former DG. “There is no doubt that different interests have continued to give varied accounts of the incident of last week at the National Assembly. It may, however, be recalled that the Presidency had pledged to carry out a detailed investigation regarding the alleged National Assembly siege. “The public is, therefore, advised to exercise restraint in their narration of events and as such, desist from spreading fake news or engaging in activities that may mislead or further cause a breach of the peace as well as preempt the outcome of investigations,” the statement added.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja 