As part of the initiatives to establish a more coherent global competition calendar, the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) Council has approved the dates of the two major international circuits for the 2019 season.  The dates were scheduled for the top-tier outdoor and indoor competitions next year to give athletes more consistent competition as they prepare for the 2019 IAAF World Championships. The IAAF said on Friday in Lagos that the World Championships was scheduled for September 2019 in Doha. “We are now seeing the results of the work that we have undertaken to review the calendar. “It also ensures that athletes, fans, organisers and media are better served by a high quality season of events,” it quoted its president Sebastian Coe as saying in a statement. The statement said that the 2019 World Indoor Tour would consist six indoor meetings, starting in the U.S. on Jan. 26 with the meeting in Boston. The following five meetings would be hosted in the European Indoor halls with the last competition on Feb. 20 in Dusseldorf in western Germany known for its fashion industry and art scene. It said that the 10th Diamond League season would start in Doha on May 3 and continue in Shanghai on May 25, beginning a stretch of nine weeks in which there will be one Diamond League meeting per week. It said that there would be a four-week break before two more meetings and the two finals in Zurich, Switzerland on Aug. 29 and Brussels will host on Sep. 6. It added that the season would then culminate with its finale at the 2019 World Championships in Doha. The IAAF gave the dates and venues of the 2019 World Indoor Tour: Boston, U.S. will host on Jan. 26, to further move to Karlsruhe, Germany on Feb. 2, while Torun, Poland will host on Feb. 6. It will move to Madrid, Spain on Feb. 8, Birmingham, Great Britain will host on Feb. 16 and Dusseldorf, Germany will host on Feb.20. The first Diamond League for the 2019 season will be held in Doha, Qatar on May 3, Shanghai, China will host on May 25, while Stockholm, Sweden will host on June 2. Roma, Italy will host on June 6, Oslo, Norway will host on June 13, while Rabat, Morocco will host on June 16. Eugene, U.S. will host on June 28 to June 29, Lausanne, Switzerland gets set to host on July 5 while Monaco will host on July 12. For July 20 to July 21, London, Great Britain will host, Birmingham, Great Britain will host on Aug. 18, Paris, France will host on Aug. 24. IAAF said Zurich, Switzerland will host on Aug. 29, while the final destination will be Brussels Belgium on Sept. 6. 