Ayobami Salami, a professor of Space Applications and Environmental Studies, is the Vice Chancellor of the First Technical University, Ibadan. In this interview with AKINREMI FEYISIPO, he explains how the institution is different from polytechnics and the University of Technology, the unique courses offered, the standard of education in country and why the country needs more universities, among other issues. Excerpts: What makes the Technical University, Ibadan differ from Polytechnics and Universities of Technology? I have had to answer this question several times and we have to keep on explaining to the general public for them to understand the main difference between the newly established Technical University and other universities and polytechnics. The polytechnics were supposed to be centers where people who have skills are trained, where you have technicians and technologists. Universities are supposed to be centers where managers are trained, so the polytechnic graduates are expected to have the skills but not so much of the theoretical or the managerial ability, they are supposed to work under managers and the universities are supposed to have more of the theoretical and managerial abilities, with less of the skills. The Technical University is an institution where you combine the two, where the people who have the technical skills combine it with both theoretical and managerial skills, so that will differentiate the product of the technical university from the product of the polytechnics. But even we can interrogate that further, when you look at the graduates from the polytechnics, a lot of issues being raised are that are they really having the skills they are supposed to have? When you even look at the graduates from the conventional universities, the question has been raised that can they live up to the expectations of the society based on the certificate they possess? I keep on saying that the issue in Nigeria is not just about the knowledge gap, it’s about the skills gap. We have a skills gap in Nigeria today whether you go to the conventional university or polytechnic, at the end of the day when the graduates come out, they cannot serve as plug and play, whether in the industry or in any organisation and the technical university has come on board to ensure that we do not only address the issue of knowledge gap but the issue of the skills gap in this country. The Federal Government keeps granting licenses for the establishment of private universities in addition to public universities. Do we really need some of these universities? When we talk about many universities, I think we are not really putting it in context, especially when talking about our population. Look at the UK for instance, how many universities do we have in that country alone, what is the population of the UK itself? So, in terms of population I believe we do not have enough universities in Nigeria if we are going to create access for those who are qualified. So, the issue of more universities is not a problem. We actually need more, but I believe we need to go beyond the issue of expanding the access, we need to talk about even improving the quality, so that we do not over-emphasise  expanding  access without actually considering quality and what will become of those students  when they graduate, will they become half-baked,  will they become useful to themselves and the society, will they not be angry when they finish and they have their certificates which are not useful to themselves or the society? This is what is actually fueling the increase in crime rate. You have youths who believe they have wasted a lot of their years going through a training which at the end of the day it is not useful to them and it’s not beneficial to the society. Is our education in Nigeria actually falling and what do you think is missing in the education sector? Well when you ask the question whether the standard of education is falling, I want to say that it is actually in relative terms. Let me give you an example, when the University of Ibadan started, how many students were in the class? How many lecturers do they have? What were the facilities available? So if you can merge the number of students with the staff and the ratio, plus the products you have at that time, and then compare it now. Like then, you have ratio 1-3, but now you have like ratio 1-50. If the lecturers are achieving the standard they are now, you will find out that they are putting more than then, so it is easy to begin to blame the lecturers or blame the students that the standard is falling, but we are comparing apples with onions, so you have to compare apples with apples and that is actually what we want to get right, and we are getting it right by the grace of God at the first technical university; we want to make sure that the facilities are there. We want to make sure the students and the staff ratio are there, we want to make sure that conducive environment is guaranteed, we want to make sure that we replicate what people look for outside Nigeria. The name of the institution was changed recently, having passed through legislative process;  what do you have to say concerning the change of the name; do you think it will give the institution the desired result? Recently, the Act establishing the university was amended by the Oyo State House of Assembly based on the proposal sent to the House. Let me say that first, about the change of name, I don’t know whether it’s a change of name or a modification, it used to be called technical university, now you insert the word “FIRST” before technical university. We are now First Technical University. Let me explain the reason, by the grace of God, what we are starting, ten, fifteen years down the road it’s going to be a model that many governments and many private sectors would be able to replicate in several places and therefore from the word go, it’s important, aside from our position in history. Historically, we have many technical universities in other parts of Africa, we have in Ghana, East Africa and South Africa, but you can go and cross-check it, none of these universities started as technical universities, they started as polytechnics that eventually metamorphosed into technical universities. Just like you have colleges of education that are upgraded to universities of education but in the whole of West Africa, we are the first university that was conceived, established and operating as a technical university. Just like you hear of First Bank, when you hear of the bank you don’t need to argue, you know that its the first bank in the Nigerian territory, so that is one aspect of that amendment to really assert our place in history but apart from that, that amendment also allows the university now to fully operate on the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model so that we can be an hybrid of both the public and private sectors. So that we can combine the advantages of the public universities with those of the private universities, eating our cake and having it at the same time, which allows us to enter into robust collaborations with the private sector, in furtherance of the mission of the university to ensure that the laudable goals of this institution are archived. Let’s face the fact; it’s only when people want to play politics they don’t really want to say the truth. The fact remains that we know that education is social responsibility, but the reality of it is that government has not been able to fully fund tertiary education to the level expected and there is no free lunch anywhere, so if government is not ready to really pay the full bill and then we don’t want the parents to pay it, then definitely there’s going to be deficiency on the part of the product. Now we are the university that is having the support of the government of the public institution, where at the stage we are allowed to also leverage all the opportunities available within the private sectors, so that at the end of the day we will be able to have the capacity to do what is expected of us and there will not be problem with respect to expected product. At what point in time did you consider the PPP arrangement? Let me say now and clearly that the university is owned by the Oyo State Government, the first technical university yesterday and today is 100 percent owned by the state, but what the government has done is to allow the private sector to come and complement its effort so that the burden will not rest squarely on the government due to limited resources. The reality on ground is that this makes the university to be able to generate and access the resources needed for full implementation or execution of this mission. Government realises the fact that given the competing demands and the available resources, the government will not be able to shoulder the responsibilities alone, so, it  is now giving a window for the private sector to come and complement its efforts, but its not a profit making venture with the  private sector coming in. Let me tell you the type of partnership we are going to be having with private sector. Firstly, we are looking at business partners that can only operate within a limited space within the technical university, like you want to build hostels, you can come and then we arrange that. But beyond that, we are also looking for angel investors, these are people who see that this is a mission and an objective that is worthy, something they have been yearning and crying for but they don’t see the avenue or they don’t see anybody that actually approximate that vision. They have the resources, they have the mind but they don’t see anybody doing things they want, they want to support us, they don’t want to be known, they are not looking for profit, they are not looking for name, they are not looking for recognition, they just see a worthy cause and let me say within the first year we have operated we have had angel investors. Up till today, they are not  mentioned,  they just see that this is something that is good for this country and want to be part of it. We also have legacy donors, they are not looking for profit but they want to immortalise their names. They see a worthy cause, they want to say I’m part of it and not that they are expecting anything. We have an example of a legacy donor, who is AMNI Petroleum International Limited, the Chief Executive,  Tunde Afolabi, decided to build AMNI International Institute in this university and that will cost over N1bn. The Institute is going to be named after AMNI but they are not expecting any profit, they are not looking for any reward or any returns, but they just see that this is a mission that is worthy of supporting and there are so many legacy investors that are not looking for avenue, they are looking for worthy causes to be  identified with but they don’t seem to have enough, they are looking for where they can put their resources and they would be glad that they are part of this project, part of this success story, so these are the kind of investors we are looking at. So, when we talk of the PPP, we are not talking in terms of let us come and share profit ,this venture is not for those who are looking for profit ,anybody looking for profit should look elsewhere. Can you lead us into your programmes and the relevance of those courses to the Nigerian system? Let me first of all say that before we commenced the full academic activities, the National Universities Commission (NUC) which is one of the regulating agencies in the educational sector in Nigeria decided to conduct what is called resource verification to this university from July 12-14, 2017, and the aim was to access our facilities, human and material resources and know whether we can actually deliver on what we promise to deliver, based on what is available. By 4th of August 2017 we were given approval to run 15 programs, let me put it on record that we actually applied to NUC  for 14 programmes, but when NUC came here and  saw what we have, both in terms of facilities and human resources, they said we are qualified to have 15 programs so one was added, based on what we have on ground. The academic programmes we have are Agricultural and Environmental Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, Full Science and Technology ,Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Mechatronic Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Petroluem Engineering, Microbiology, Industrial Chemistry, Physics with Electronics, Computer Science, Cyber Security, Software Engineering, Mathematics and Statistics. Now the relevance of these programmes we are running that are not common in other conventional universities, for example Bio-Medical engineering, in  Nigeria of today perhaps only University of Lagos(UNILAG) is running this, they started with us, they started last year and we also started last year, so in Nigeria today, there are just two universities running the course. In the country presently, we use a lot of sophisticated equipment that are imported, which are not manufactured in Nigeria here and when they break down we don’t have people that can either maintain or repair them. So what happens when they break down you have to fly in experts from outside the country to come and either maintain or repair, and at a point in time you have to look for money to buy another one. So, you find out that you spend a lot of money to buy equipment because of lack of maintenance and adequate requirements, within two-three years they are gone and this has been on for so long because we can’t take care of them. So we are filling this skills gap by running Bio-Medical engineering so that these sophisticated medical equipment can be maintained and repaired by the people that are trained within this country. On Cyber Security, I stand to be corrected ,I don’t know of any university in Nigeria that is running a BSC program in Cyber Security and we keep on saying this is a digital age, we want to move to E-Governance, E-Banking, E- Security, E-Banking, we are talking about the issue of Boko-Haram insurgencies and one of the major problems that goes with the digital age is the issue of Cyber Crime , the Central Bank has been talking about it, security agencies have been talking about it but I keep on saying it, by global ranking,  Nigeria is Number three in the world in cyber crime after United States of America  and United Kingdom, but we don’t have people who are trained, who are skilled to really deal with that. This university is set to train a set of people that can actually make sure that they mitigate the issue of cyber crime in Nigeria. Also, when you are a good software engineering you don’t need to look for a job, all you need is your laptop, internet connectivity and be your room, you can just write programs and make your money from it. So any good software engineer does not need to go around knocking at doors. You look at the problems that people are having these days because everything is running on software now, accounting systems are running on software, banks, so on and we don’t have many universities where software is being taught . But I think FUTA has started running software engineering, these are the areas where gaps are needed to be filled. Even the ones that are known, like you talk of mechanical engineering, the way we also trained our students here is different from the way they will trained in conventional  universities because what will be the justification for them to come to a technical university to study mechanical engineering, then they can go to University of Ibadan and Obafemi  Awolowo University, but attending a technical university is going to be the unique advantage, that will be our selling point ,even if you go and read this program in other universities, the way we train our students is different. We trained them to fit the purpose. In this institution, we divide our programmes into two components, 60 percent of instructions is taken by lecturers, 40 percent is taken by professionals in the field. You are trained both by the lecturers and industry professionals, so our products are not just ordinary products; they are products of both the university and the industry. We have signed an MoU with the Nigerian Institute  of Engineers, with the private sectors to reserve spaces for our students for industrial exposures where facilities for their training are available. I keep on saying it that I worked in the conventional university for 30 years before coming here as a pioneer vice chancellor, there is what is called Students Industrial Work Experience Scheme (SIWES) one of the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) program. SIWES more or less now is just to fulfill all righteousness because they don’t have places; they just come and submit the report. But the our institution, based on our agreement and our MOU with the private sector, we secure spaces for our students ,where facilities are available for their training ,we don’t send a mechanical engineer just to go to pure water factory and just spend six months and just write your report. No, we have signed an agreement with the private sector and when they are there, they will be faced with the real life situations and challenges. Their projects are their products, every student before they graduate, must solve  a societal problem. They must in their final year, do something that brings practical solution to problems in their field of study. The industries will tell us their challenges and this challenge is what will turn to the products for the students. Also, our students go to the school of entrepreneurship and vocational studies, in this school you enroll for two major vocations of your choice which are related to your training. You will go through that training for three years, then you will be certificated in those two vocations, and when you are done in your third year , you are now asked to write a  business proposal based on those vacations. With this, industries have indicated interest to partner with us to sponsor some of those projects so while the students are still in the university, then we can begin to have this project executed and we will monitor them. All these, we plan to take place in the third year but I am happy to tell you that it has started happening right from the first year. The World Bank on its own, after looking at what we have been doing, and then seeing that we fit into the kind of expectations they are expecting, they wanted to come and work with us. There is a boot camp for Tech U students sponsored by the World Bank presently ongoing and they are taking our students through vocational training based on what we have thought them. When rounded off, three of the best ideas will be supported by the Bank. They are going to award prizes for the first, second and third, and that money is not going to the pocket of the students, it’s going to finance that idea. So we thought it was going to happen in the third year but to our pleasant surprise it started happening at the first year just because some people notice what we are doing and they decided that this is something they want to identify with. If we look at the situation now, very soon, ASUU may be going on strike. Will the university be affected? The first technical university will not be plagued  by the strike epidemic that is common in public universities in Nigeria. Once you bring your students or your children to the institution, once the student does not fail, you can predict when the student will graduate. We are going to run a stable calendar, remember I told you this is not just a private university, it’s a public university with a private sector orientation and so the issue of industrial crisis does not arise. Let us really interrogate what’s actually the reason for industrial crisis? The major reason for industrial crisis is  the welfare of staff, its when the employers or labour fail live up to the expectations and renege on the agreement they made with the workers, that the workers now begin to disrupt the system. But let me say at the technical university we are proactive, we don’t expect this. Our workers are adequately taken care of. You become a militant when you discover than nobody is ready to listen to you and nobody thinks about your welfare and your well-being, I would tell you a few things, In public universities today, one of the things people are fighting for is what we call hand allowances which they are expecting universities to pay. Some public universities will tell you they owe up 27 months, 38 months. From the word go, at the technical university we started paying these allowances, we have paid the hazard allowances, we paid the senior worker, we paid the junior worker. People are also thinking what will become of them when they retire, so we are the only university today or let me put it this way, no worker in any public university today that has a better retirement package than what we offer in the technical university today. You know the pension law, government pays seven and half percent, the employee in universities pays seven and half percent, making 15percent, and at the end of the day there is even a crying that maybe government is not actually remitting its own part. In the technical university as I am talking to you today, we have discussed with our workers that for them to have peace when they retire, we had an agreement, we deduct 8 percent from their salaries and the university is paying 10percent. So every worker that is working here has 18 percent invested for him/her by his/her own preferred Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) and we remit this funds 10th of every month. We don’t wait for crisis, we don’t wait for people to agitate when you have what you don’t have in other places, what will be the reason for agitation. And even the salary we offer staff is more than what any public university in Nigeria offers today. Quote me and go and cross-check, go and interview our workers, no worker in a public university today has what we pay in First Technical University. However, by law, workers are not expected to be part of any trade union for the first five years, but apart from that, we are not just a public university, we said  we are running on a PPP model. So the unionism in our campus is not going to be the kind of combative one that you have anywhere that’s  is why I am assuring you any student that comes here can be sure of the date of graduation. What are the challenges you are facing especially source of funding to meet up salaries because presently Oyo State owes salaries of tertiary institutions several months? Since we are established from the word go as a public university with the private sector orientation, we are not expected to depend on the government handout on a monthly basis to pay our salaries. It depends on the kind of orientation you have had from the beginning, so we were clear this is not a university that would be depending on government to pay salaries. We have four sources of funding. We have the government grants, in public universities the government has a commitment to give a grant to the university, and we said a grant not subvention, we have to do on a regular monthly basis. Government gives us a take-off grant and they made it clear we are not going to pay your salaries, so that is why we from the  beginning  decided to leverage and to look out for three types of partners I have talked about. For instance now, we are going to have hotel accommodation in this university, at least four star hotels. The university is not going to be the one to pay a dime to do that, the private sector would be encouraged to come and establish them and it will get to a kind of arrangement whereby we share the profit, the environment is what we are providing, we are not giving a dime, the accommodation that we are bringing up, its being sponsored by the private sector but our master plan must be followed and also then we are going to get our own experts to monitor the project. Also remember we have angel donors and also legacy investors. When people talk about our fees being high, its either you have what is quality or you don’t have it. You cannot want to buy a Mercedes Benz and you want to pay the price of a Hyundai, it cannot work but if you want to have a Mercedes Benz and the money you have can only afford Hyundai, you can then look for people who can support you. Even though we charge fees that are higher, we have also created baskets of funds for indigent students to accept so that nobody who is qualified would be denied the opportunity. But one thing we will not do in the technical university that I keep on saying is to subsidies the rich and we won’t deny the poor. The university in the last one year has raised a scholarship of about N500million, within that time and now  I can also announce to you that the amount of funds we have raised on scholarship is now N700 million for the indigent students, and that is where things work. This is how much it cost but those who cannot afford it, we look for means for them ,and that’s what we are doing. So the fees are high or higher than other universities but we have created avenues for people who are qualified but may not have the means to come, but we want to set standards that we don’t want to compromise. We don’t want a university where you only run alternative to practical, because there is no funding, We don’t want a university where five students will be sharing one microscope. Once a student comes in here everything is taken care of. We have set a standard we don’t want to go below but we have to realise that it comes at a cost, and that cost must be shared both by the parents and the governments, so this is a university where parents and the governments collaborate to secure the future.