Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel yesterday at t a very colourful ceremony at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo formally declared his intention to run for a second term in office as the Governor of the State. This sets the stage for the former Akpabio protégé to challenge his former mentor, Godswill Akpabio who has defected to the opposition APC with a promise to take over the state like Hitler took over Poland. The Governor who used the occasion to present a scorecard of his three years of “servant leadership” in the state, based on his 5-point agenda that had won him the mandate in the first instance, scored his administration high across all sectors of the economy. He noted the giant strides he has made in the area ofindustrialisation and the enormous benefits that has delivered to the people, noting for instance, “things we used to import from China and other places, today we produce them here”. Among the industries the administration has established in the state so far, include: the multi-million-dollar Jubilee Syringe Factory in Onna, reputed as the largest producer of disposable syringes in Africa, the Toothpick and Pencil factory, the Fertiliser Blending Plant in Abak, The Metering Solution Company, The Coconut Refinery, Flour Mill and the Plastic Factory, amidst a host of others. Governor Emmanuel equally acknowledged the gains he has made in the area of power supply, noting that his administration has invested heavily to upgrade power infrastructure and development of new ones such as the substations in Uyo and Ikot Ekene and the first digitalised substation in Ekim, Mkpat Enin Local Government Area which he said, would reconnect some long forgotten communities to stable electricity supply, once it is commissioned. The Governor noted with satisfaction, “these investments have seen a steady increase in electricity supply throughout the state”, adding “Akwa Ibom people currently enjoy 18 -22 hours of electricity supply daily.” Governor Emmanuel listed other life-changing programmes his administration had embarked upon in the last three years in the areas of healthcare, education, and human capital development especially in the specific areas of youth and women empowerment such as the micro-credit scheme for traders. All these, the Governor said, his administration has achieved even amid dwindling allocation from the federation account, adding that he has placed the welfare of Akwa-Ibomites above all else such that salaries, gratuities and pensions are given prime attention. Hear the Governor: “I have operated a Christ-centric Government, I have led a people-centric government. I have worn humility as a badge of honour, believing that power comes from the people.” Based on all these, Emmanuel said, he has decided to surrender himself for a fresh/renewed mandate from the people, noting that if he could achieve so much in three years, there was need to use the next four years to consolidate on the gains of the first tenure. “I am here to say that we are going on a second term to surpass superior performance.” Speaking earlier, the first indigenous Military Administrator of the State and Director of the Divine Mandate, the Governor’s electioneering machinery, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (rtd) who set the tone for the day’s event said, “All that we have is Udom Emmanuel. Democracy is about choice. This is our choice.” In his goodwill message, the Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Onofiok Luke said, “Akwa Ibom is PDP and PDP is Akwa Ibom. There’s nothing anyone can do about it.” Adding, “Udom is the people’s and God’s choice”, warning those who say election is war and plotting to capture the state; “We will resist it with the last blood in our veins”. Luke particularly said that Governor Udom has touched the lives of every citizen of the state positively and should therefore be allowed to continue with his good works. More so, for sake of justice and fairness, since the other two senatorial districts of the state had each run its two-term of eight years. Also speaking, the senator representing Uyo senatorial District and Senate Committee Chairman on Gas and Natural Resources, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan, said Emmanuel had been the choice of Akwa Ibom people in 2015 and would remain the choice of the people in 2019 even as he told the Governor, “Wherever you go, we’ll go with you. Your God will be our God”. Governor Nyesome Wike of Rivers State who also attended the declaration ceremony urged the Akwa Ibom people to be ready to stand firm and defend the right choice that they made. He said having seen things for himself, there was no doubt that Governor Emmanuel was a proud product of the PDP and a shining example for other Governors to emulate. On his part Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, who also watched the ceremony commended the Akwa Ibom people for having a performing Governor like Udom whom he described as a God-fearing leader and equally urged the people to stand by the choice they have made. His words, “You cannot come from anywhere and take over Akwa Ibom land. Akwa Ibom belongs to Akwa Ibom people and they must stay and reap the fruits of their land.” The State Chairman of the PDP, Paul Ekpo also speaking said, having witnessed the enormous confidence they people had put on Emmanuel, the party had no option than to workassiduously to return him to the Hiltop Mansion in 2019. Among the dignitaries that watched the ceremony include the ex-Governors of Kogi, Kaduna and Benue, former Governors of the state namely Paul Ebiye and Col. Yakubu Bako (rtd), former deputy governors of the state among them Chris Ekpenyong and Etim Okpoyo, members of the National Assembly, captains of industries amidst a host of others. The Nest of Champions venue of the declaration was filled to capacity as Akwa-Ibomites defied the early morning rains to witness the event. 