The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) says it is committed to engaging with government in creating a favourable business environment that would guarantee the survival of start-ups and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria. Babatunde Ruwase, president of LCCI, said this during the matching event of the 2018 LCCI Entrepreneurship Mentoring Programme held on August 2 in Lagos. ‘‘To us at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, focussing on this developmental initiative on the youth is a means of investing in their future and guaranteeing better tomorrow for our country,’’ said Ruwase. Represented by Michael Olawale-Cole, vice president and chairman of the BEST board, the LCCI president enjoined the mentees to make the best of the mentoring programme. ‘‘You are implored to be good ambassadors of this program so that other youths out there can also be encouraged to explore the programme,’’ Ruwase advised. He also called on corporate bodies, the public sector, donor agencies and individuals to support the initiative. ‘‘An empowered private sector is better positioned to create the needed jobs for the nation’s teeming youths,’’ he said. While matching the mentees with their mentors, Olawale-Cole advised the former to learn from their latter. In his counsel and closing remarks, Toki Mabogunje, deputy president, LCCI, who was represented by Suboma Ajumogobia, advised the mentors and mentees to give the programme the seriousness it deserves. ‘‘I enjoin the mentors and mentees to take this programme extremely seriously and I believe you will get enormous benefits from it,’’ Mabogunje said. The mentees who were pleased to be part of the entrepreneurship mentoring programme applauded LCCI for the opportunity. ‘‘This is a great programme. LCCI invested a lot in this programme because most of the facilitators were well-grounded in what they are doing and this made the programme worth the while,’’ said Tunbosun Afolayan, a mentee and a beautician. Adejoke Solabi, another mentee, who is into event planning, said: ‘‘The amount we paid is far more than what we have learnt. The offer was more than what we have paid for and I’m really grateful to LCCI. Before now, I was used to doing my business anyhow, not putting account details of my stock, but I now know how to do it better.’’  CHINWE AGBEZE 