Even though reports claim that Mathew Seiyesa, should be taking over the Department of State Security (DSS), sources within the security agency claims that this is still not certain as there is some confusion over who is the most senior officer in the organisation right now. Daura had been recalled from retirement on July 2015, ahead of other qualified personnel still in the service to head the DSS, first in acting capacity, which was later converted to a permanent position. “I cannot immediately say who will take over now, because there is confusion in the office at the moment” a source at the agency told BusinessDay There are also speculations Lawal Daura was arrested soon after his sack as his whereabouts remains unknown as at the time of going to press. Acting President, Yemi Osinbajo, directed the termination of the appointment of the Director General, State Security Service, Lawal Musa Daura earlier today and directed that the most senior person takes over. A statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity Laolu Akande  directed Daura to hand over to the most senior officer of the State Security Service until further notice. Daura was sacked in connection with the invasion of the National Assembly this morning. Osinbajo, had washed his hands clean from the invasion, describing it as “unauthorized” Osinbajo further described the takeover of the National Assembly complex earlier today as a gross violation of constitutional order, rule of law and all acceptable notions of law and order. According to him, the unlawful act which was done without the knowledge of the Presidency is condemnable and completely unacceptable. Osinbajo assured that all persons within the law enforcement apparatus who participated in this travesty will be identified and subjected to appropriate disciplinary action. Lawal Daura took over as the 10th Director General of the Department of State Security Service following the dismissal of the former DG , DSS, Ita Ekpeyong on 2 July, 2015. President Muhammadu Buhari had dismissed Ekpeyong in a very mysterious circumstance, before his tenure of office expired Lawal Daura hails from Daura, the same town with President Muhammadu Buhari. His appointment attracted controversy to the current administration following his role as the arrow head of the “ cabal” that controls President Buhari’s kitchen cabinet. Daura w ho was born in August 1953, in Daura town, started his civil career in 1982 with the Department of State Security Service, after graduating from the Ahmad’s Bello University , Zaria, rising to the position of Director In 2003, he was appointed, Deputy Director Presidential Communication, Command and Control Centre at the Presidential Villa, a position he held till 2007, before his appointment was terminated. The mission of the DSS is to amongst others protect and defend the Federal Republic of Nigeria against domestic threats, It is also to uphold and enforce the criminal laws of Nigeria, and to provide leadership and criminal justice services to both federal and state law-enforcement organs. It was established to take charged of the protection of the President, Vice President, Senate President, Speaker of the House of Representatives, State Governors, their immediate families, other high ranking government officials, past presidents and their spouses, certain candidates for the offices of President and Vice President, and visiting foreign heads of state and government, working with other security agencies But his reign at the DSS has been described as reign of terror, as the ousted DG also had a running battle with First Lady, Aisha Buhari who was alleged to have issued an order asking the former DG out of House 7 at the Presidential Villa, where he held sway until he was removed. The First Lady, who could not hide her frustration hinted about the cabal, October, last year. Aisha Buhari had declared that her “husband’s government had been hijacked by a cabal , behind presidential appointments.” “The President does not know 45 of 50, for example, of the people he appointed and I don’t know them either despite being his wife for 27 years. Some people are sitting down at their homes folding their arms only for them to be called to come and head an agency or ministerial position.” Inside sources at the DSS revealed to BusinessDay, Tuesday that many of the staff heaved a sigh of relief on hearing of the termination of Daura’s appointment. Daura had paired well with the Chief of Staff to the President , Abba Kyari to dictate the state of affairs at the Presidential Villa. The former DG, DSS had insisted on frustrating the current Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Mangu, by producing two separate documents, one to the President giving clean bill on the EFCC Acting Chairman, while sending a separate letter to the National Assembly declaring Magu unfit to head the federal government anti- graft agency. The development not only created embarrassment for the government, it is also the basis upon which the leadership of the Senate has continuously resisted every efforts by the Presidency to confirm Magu as the substantive head of the EFCC. The development has also formed the basis for the unending strained relationship between the lawmakers and the Executive as the former insisted on putting confirmations of appointments requests from the Executive on hold, until their orders on the EFCC acting Chairman was upheld. 