An ophthalmologist has said that uncorrected or refractive error affects children’s eyes and major cause blindness. The expert disclosed in an interview with BusinessDay that it is very mandatory and important not only in Nigeria, but all over the world to take any child between the ages of two to three for check up with an ophthalmologist. Refractive error means that the shape of your eye does not bend light correctly, resulting in a blurred image. According to Ranijit Basu, a consultant phaco, Refractive, Glaucoma and paediatric ophthalmology, at Skipper Eye Q said, “Early detection is the key to save the children from blindness; any child between the ages of two to three should be taking for check up with an ophthalmologist. “Others are allergies which are mostly from toxic smoke; air conditioners and the effect of global warming are also affecting these children which are creating a whole lot of problems. Congenital cataract, maligned or cross eyes,” said Basu. According to him, time is very mandatory when it comes to eye; therefore it is recommended we go for eye check-up yearly except the diabetic and glaucoma patient which needs to visit the hospital between four to six months. ‘Raising the index of consciousness in the society is very vital; I request the government of Nigeria to replicate the models which the Middle East countries as well as India have been following. Eye surgeries for people who live below poverty level cost practically nothing. So the social economic status should not be the main hurdle to the person receiving proper delivery of eye care,” Basu added. However, symptoms and signs of refractive errors could be blurred vision, headaches, double vision difficulty reading or seeing up close and crossing of the eyes in children (esotropia). Refractive disorders are commonly treated using corrective lenses, such as eyeglasses or contact lenses. What are the different types of refractive errors? The most common types of refractive errors are myopia, hyperopia, presbyopia, and astigmatism. Myopia (nearsightedness) is a condition where objects up close appear clearly, while objects far away appear blurry. With myopia, light comes to focus in front of the retina instead of on the retina. Hyperopia (farsightedness) is a common type of refractive error where distant objects may be seen more clearly than objects that are near. However, people experience hyperopia differently. Some people may not notice any problems with their vision, especially when they are young. For people with significant hyperopia, vision can be blurry for objects at any distance, near or far. Astigmatism is a condition in which the eye does not focus light evenly onto the retina, the light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye. This can cause images to appear blurry and stretched out. Presbyopia (loss of near vision with age) is an age-related condition in which the ability to focus up close becomes more difficult. As the eye ages, the lens can no longer change shape enough to allow the eye to focus close objects clearly.  ANTHONIA OBOKOH 