Ibrahim Murtala (APC-Katsina), Musawa/Matazu federal constituency of Katsina State at the weekend dismissed report on alleged plans to dump All Progressive Congress (APC) and his kinsman, President Muhammadu Buhari at the forthcoming presidential election. Murtala who disclosed this in a chat with select Legislative Correspondents at the National Assembly, Abuja, expressed optimism that most APC members across South-West, South-South and South-East will rally support for Buhari despite the gale of defection ravaging the ruling party. “There are a lot of members either from the South West, South South and South East, tackless of the North that won’t decamp. For me in particular, I won’t decamp because I am fulfilling what I promised my constituents, that is change. “We remain for change, we are totally committed to support Buhari. We don’t believe in sharing people’s money, that’s what made most of us not to decamp,. “This country must be transformed whereby every individual in this country will have three square meal,” Murtala said. He also argued that President Buhari has over the past three years fulfilled his 3-point campaign promises – employment generation, fight against insurgency and corruption. “All the promises Gen. Buhari made, he has fulfilled them. One, to battle insurgency. Two, Create employment and three, fight corruption. These are the reasons why we are supporting him. He has done well and he’s trying. 80% of corruption cases have been fought,” Murtala argued. While responding to allegation on the selective fight against corruption, the Katsina lawmaker maintained that there are a number of APC members including a serving Senator, Dariye who is currently serving a jail term for corruption. On employment generation, Murtala said: “let’s take the industrial sector. Do you know what’s going on in Kebbi state? Lake rice. That creates direct and indirect employments. He has empowered farmers to produce rice, that’s direct employment. The labourers will go there to park it, that’s indirect employment. The transporters will go there with their trucks and transport to other parts of the country, that’s indirect employment. “See what is happening on the dredging of River Niger. Now vessels are already berthing. From what I learnt, by next week Monday, he’s going to commission it, that’s employment,” Murtala observed. In a related development, Ado Doguwa, Majority Chief Whip in the House of Representatives, expressed optimism that Buhari has the wherewithal to win the presidential election in 2019. He maintained that a former Kano Governor who also declared intention to vie for Presidency in 2019 has no political relevance in his state. “Kwankwaso who as a senator has not visited his constituency in 3 years, but sit here in Abuja in his mansion in Asokoro to say that he wants to be President, President of who? “Out of the 44 State Assembly members, only six agreed to follow him. Then in the House, even the member representing his federal constituency refused to decamp with him. So what political clout can he boast of when he couldn’t get his own Rep member to follow him to his new party?” Doguwa queried.  