Acting President Yemi Osinbajo took firm actions Tuesday to check acts of impunity by government officials following the unauthorized invasion of the National Assembly by operatives of the Department of State Security Service, DSS. The Vice President, disturbed by the Tuesday action purportedly on the orders of the sacked Director General of the DSS, Lawan Daura, summoned top agencies that had hitherto acted in manners that have heightened political tension ahead of the 2019 general elections. The Vice President who had earlier met with Daura to register his displeasures over his action, later summoned the Chief of Staff to the President Abba Kyari, acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Ibrahim Magu and the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to his office and met with them behind classed doors. . Prior to the sacking of the DSS DG, many had reasoned that President Muhammadu Buhari’s appointees had held the nation hostage by their actions ahead of the 2019 general elections. The President had whether by Act of omission or deliberate will, chosen to look the other way as a few of his appointees plunged the nation into deeper crises through their actions and in some cases, deliberate refusal to take necessary actions on matters of national importance. The President had while on a visit to Benue State to commiserate with the people over the killing of innocent citizens, lamented that the IGP had disobeyed his orders to relocate to the troubled region to fund lasting solution to the problem. Amongst those whose action heightened political tension impacted negatively on the of the administration are the Inspector General of the Police, ( IGP), Ibrahim Idris, Comptroller General of the Nigerian Customs, Hamed Ali, the Chief of Staff to the President Abba Kyari, the acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu and the Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami. Some of the most dehumanizing decisions emanating from this administration can be linked in one way or the other to one of these Principal officers appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari himself. It is a common knowledge that these officers act without recourse and in most cases regards for the office of the Vice President, who apart from being a thorough breed professional is also an astute politician and a major stakeholders in the current administration. BusinessDay gathered that the meeting which came on the heels of his landmark decision to sack the DG of DSS, was also to drum some home truth and strong signal to the officers that under his watch, the current administration will take the right decision.
BusinessDay gathered that Osinbajo in a strongly worded message instructed that all issues must be cleared with his office henceforth. The Inspector General of Police after the meeting denied being part of the plan to lay siege on the National Assembly. An insider informed BusinessDay that the Vice President used the opportunity to assert his authority. The Vice President m BusinessDay gathered had lamented that the siege on the National Assembly was a major dent on the planned reception to welcome former People’s Democratic Party PDP , Senate Minority leaders , Godswill Akpabio , schedule for Akwa Ibom state on Wednesday. “ He was very bitter that while he was working to bring about a political solution to the National Assembly impasse, the DSS acted the way they did without recourse to his office” Our source who traced the current political quagmire faced by the All Progressive Congress to what he described as “ a product of acts of impunity perpetrated by these few” noted that the party will sink deeper unless such actions are taken to preserve the integrity of members. According to our source the “ VP told them that there are no sacred cows in government” “ The VP has sent a strongly worded message to all those concerned and he has the backing of the President to take these actions” he said.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja  