In its effort towards supporting a cashless economy, ease of transaction and transparency, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on Friday launched the use of X-Pay as its electronic payment platform from which payments can be made.  The e-payment platform which can be access by any smart devices will enable users to conveniently make payments for products, services, events and trainings offered by the bourse. With features like invoice payments, intuitive products display and dynamic search functionality.  From the report from NSE homepage, Bola Adeeko, Head Shared Services Division, NSE, said, “we are thrilled to launch X-Pay, a solution that builds on our customer centric focus and our efforts to transform the Nigerian capital market into a more efficient model. X-Pay reinstates our commitment to move towards cashless transactions and build a sustainable cashless ecosystem, while satisfying users’ preferences for self-serve bill payment options that is convenient and secure”.  X-Pay is a value-added service that accepts VISA, MasterCard Verve and UnionPay credit and debit cards. The platform aims to deliver a faster and safer payment method which is protected by best in class IT and card security features, in line with global best practices.  “NSE is leveraging the power of innovation and digital technology to improve its efficiency and reduce the cost of transactions. With X-Pay, our stakeholders will now enjoy easy access to a wider catalog of our products and services, be able to select and purchase from anywhere, at any time” Adeeko went on to say.  He added that “Not only will X-Pay be convenient, it will also provide huge opportunity for NSE to maximize its capacity and realize increased efficiency through automated processes and better data integration”.  This is one of many moves the NSE has carried out to put itself as a first class Exchange, over the years it has introduced innovative ideas such as X-GEN in 2013 which is the fastest trading platform in Africa with low latency capabilities,X-Smart which it introduced for better surveillance and others technology in its attempt to meet up with digitization and global standards.  