Two years after, Saudi Arabia’s reforming young prince told the world he planned to sell shares in the kingdom’s crown jewel Saudi Aramco, the project seems to be fading as a combination of hubris on the valuation, an overambitious timetable, and indifference if not derision from global investors doubtful that an IPO would benefit them has made the once in a generation deal seems a long way off. After a Reuters report on August 22nd that listing plans had been called off, the kingdom issued a statement saying the “speculation” was untrue, and that it remained committed to the IPO “at a time of its own choosing when conditions are optimum”. But beneath the disciplined message put forward in Riyadh lies a more uncertain reality, the 2018 deadline looks tight. Ademola Henry team leader at FOSTER said the problem of poor predetermined valuation armed with lack of political will and lack of clarity on how the process should be done have made the Saudi Aramco IPO a fiction which will never happen. “When they arrived at a valuation of $2 trillion the market was shocked asking how they arrived at that,” Henry, team leader at FOSTER told BusinessDay. The team leader at FOSTER said investors can manage many things but one thing investors cannot manage is an uncertainty which is everything the Saudi Aramco project is all about. Jubril Kareem an energy analyst at Ecobank said the Saudi Aramco project is not a question of if “when” it will happen but a question of “if” it will ever happen as the chances looks slimmer. “There have always being controversy about the $2 trillion valuation which is doubtful. Also the concern that the government will have to disclose lots of information which they would rather keep private,” Kareem an energy analyst at Ecobank told BusinessDay. The IPO process started in January 2016, when Crown prince Mohammed Bin Salman told the Economist that Riyadh was considering selling shares in Aramco, which the kingdom nationalised in 1976 when it took over the stake of its American owners. “Personally, I’m enthusiastic about this step,” he said. “I believe it is in the interest of the Saudi market, and it is in the interest of Aramco.” Potentially the biggest equity sale in history, the IPO planned for 2018 is supposed to be the deal of all deals, as it was proposed to seed a $2 trillion sovereign wealth fund to carry the Middle East’s biggest economy through the end of the oil age and also funnel hundreds of millions of dollars in fees to Wall Street’s elite banks such as JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley. “I am not a betting man, but I am fairly certain that the Aramco IPO will not happen before the end of 2019. But I’ll bet £50 that there is no domestic stock listing, and another £50 there is no international listing, before the end of 2019,” John Kemp, a renowned international Energy analyst, tweeted despite Riyad statement on Thursday. While current U.S. president Donald Trump has said he’s enthusiastic about the idea of Aramco listing in New York stock exchange, however keeping the price of gasoline under control seems far more important. With Republicans facing tough midterm elections in November, he’s pressured Saudi Arabia to pump more oil, and cheaper crude means a lower valuation for the company. Also Saudi Aramco house seems not to be in order as important key officials working on the project have left or moved. For instance, Abdullah bin Ibrahim al-Saadan, a 30-year veteran who as chief financial officer was the most senior executive working on the IPO’s day-to-day preparations, left in June to become the chairman of the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu. Saudi Aramco is yet to announce a permanent replacement for al-Saadan; another key official Motassim al-Maashouq, who is vice president of IPO development, has been asked to take on new responsibilities. Fund managers are also worried that the value of oil fields could dwindle as governments ramp up their efforts to reduce fossil fuel consumption to fight climate change. The spread of electric vehicles, for example, will reduce demand growth over the next two decades. In May a group of investors including Standard Life Aberdeen, Fidelity Investments, and Legal & General Group warned oil companies about the risk of global warming. “As long-term investors, representing more than $10.4tn in assets,” they said in an open letter, they believed “the case for action on climate change is clear.” Last month, Saudi Aramco confirmed that it was in talks with the Saudi government’s sovereign wealth fund, which owns a 70 percent stake in Sabic, to buy a “strategic interest” in the chemical company. Buying part of Sabic, a giant in its own right, could make Saudi Aramco a more valuable company while the petrochemical industry is growing around the world. That, in turn, could help the oil company draw even more interest in a public offering. Sabic, which earned a net profit of nearly $5 billion in 2017, produced more than 70 million tons of petrochemicals and five million tons of steel last year, according to Middle East Petroleum and Economic Publications, which tracks the industry. But skeptics of a Sabic transaction worry that Saudi Aramco would be taking on a financial burden by paying tens of billions of dollars for a stake in the chemical company. And adding on a big petrochemical business might reduce the overall profitability of Aramco, which is believed to enjoy one of the world’s lowest costs for extracting the oil it produces.  DIPO OLADEHINDE 