As observed, the chances of hitting ‘like’ on a well-known figure’s post on social media are high, which explains why many celebrities in Nigeria, sometimes have a flood of likes, with little comments, and where there are comments, it could be requests of for ‘follow backs’ or help, or an opportunist who simply see it as a chance to advertise a celebrity’s wall, or fans bullying themselves. What really drives these ‘likes’ by fans remains a debate which reveals some personal gratification a fan gets by just hitting ‘like’. Hence, fans have expressed their views and what could influence them into liking a post by a celebrity they follow on any social medium. A fan who preferred to remain anonymous, said he could like a post because he wants to get updates from such celebrity, see the flamboyant life style the celebrity lives because he hopes to one day live like that, and not because the picture is actually likeable (fine) or meaningful (if it’s just a write up). Singer, Adeniyi Adewoyin, also known as Neo Phlames told me that he likes Instagram posts because he feels that’s what everyone wants. “I just click like on every post I see on Instagram since it doesn’t cost me anything. Since most people only want likes on their posts I just click like because that’s why I post. It’s just a way of supporting. Most times I don’t even look at the post twice.” According to Cynthia Nwosu, a fashion designer; “I click ‘like’ on posts when I think they say something I can relate with, whether it’s something I’m going through or that I know someone else is going through. A picture of a celebrity I will like to emulate, yeah maybe. But some random celebrity I’ll just pass. See, people don’t do anything with the brain, it’s with the heart. We do what we feel is going to make us feel better inside, not what is going to teach us a lesson for the future”. In the words of Priscilla Okechukwu, OAP, and entertainer; “I like some, because I truly like it and the caption that goes with it especially when it’s insightful and gets to me. For others, it could be because of the celebrity and not my like for it. For instance, I recently liked a celebrity’s picture even though I hated the outfit she had on. Thought it looked really stupid, but because it’s her, I liked it.” “I rarely like celeb’s pictures because I’m not always on Instagram, but when I often log in and see good pictures, I do like them, but I don’t like them because others do. I like them because they appealed to me. Same applies to their tweets; I like their tweets only when they make sense. Generally, I don’t like their posts on social media simply because they are celebrities. I like a post because I truly like a post”, said rising rapper, Chidiebere Kalu. Adaeze Obi, a Corper said for her to click ‘like’ on a post means that she really likes it. “If I don’t, I just look and move on. But there are times where the bias of the person who is having the post comes to play. You like a post because you know the person, or because you like the person,” she adds. While Uche Ukaegbu, writer, may like a celebrity’s picture or post because it either makes sense to her, it’s funny or the picture (dressing, make up and the likes) is truly beautiful, another fan, Ore Oluwatosin, caterer and CEO, Pearlfoodiez says it is just to get news. “Or probably if I’m satisfied by the caption of the story. Or the picture is appealing to me,” she added. Another factor that could generate lots of likes based on responses is “if the posts is fascinating, fine or of interest” to a fan.  Desmond Okon 