Intaxiads a premium taxi advertising company says it targets is to create job opportunities for Nigeria youths and reduce the 61.6% are unemployed figure in Nigeria. The company says that having a strategic partnership with Moving Train Pilots Association (MOTPA) a registered professionals association with over 2,500 drivers will create opportunity for drivers to earn extra income as low as 600 per day to add to their daily and monthly income. Aminat Ayeni, executive director, Intaxiads Company while speaking at the launch of the product in Lagos said that an innovative advertising company in Nigeria, they are set to give brands maximum exposure of their contents to their targeted audience. She disclosed that under the arrangement with MOTPA, the company provides service for companies that are looking to employ taxi marketing techniques as a tactics in there marketing strategy which will give their content the maximum exposure it required. Ayeni observe Nigeria is a place with lots of creativity and innovation, but businesses lack absolute market strategy to reach their targeted audience and market. David Ogivly, one of the pioneers of advertising, said that in the modern world of business, it is useless to be a creative, original thinker unless you can also sell what you create. According to her, “We are ready to dedicate our resources, time to affect your brands and the nation positively” “We are also aware of the population of the unemployed youths. In a country of about 197 million people, 61.6% are unemployed which occupies half of the population”, she said. Timothy Adelaja, president, Moving Train Pilots Association (MOTPA) said the reason for the partnership with Intaxiads is to affect positively the businesses and products that are registered under the platform. “The 2,500 drivers are not just doing businesses in Lagos alone; products that come under the Intaxiads platforms also are displayed to all the geo-political zones in the country”. Adelaja said among the benefits of the partnership I that MOTPA will at no extra cost train all the drivers on the fleets adding that the Association have over 50 thousand clients who engage drivers from the association on a daily basis. “If you decide to come on board our advert platform, we guarantee growth in your individual businesses. My also training and engaging more drivers, it will be getting a percentage of Nigerians off the unemployment market by so doing develop the economy. KELECHI EWUZIE 