The Federal Executive Council, FEC on Wednesday approved the sum of $150m for tackling Polio in twelve states from the World Bank. This is just as Council also on Wednesday approved two memos totaling sum N 59b for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC , amongst them, a contract to install technology monitoring system for automated fuel management system. The project will enable government track the fuel movement, to according to him, “enable us tell, what we really consumed in this country” “Let’s us know what we consume and where the fuel is going. Within one year, the real effect will begin to show” The Finance Minister, Kemi Adeosun in her presentation at the FEC Meeting, said the World Bank’s US$150 million credit facility in support of the Polio Eradication and Contract for the supply and installation of 3 Units of Rapiscan Mobile Cargo Scanner-Eagle M60 were approved. This include 30 months on-site service/support and maintenance, training of120 officers and integration of Rapiscan Eagle M60 Scanners into Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System. The Minister said the proposed World Bank’s US$150 million credit facility in support of the Polio Eradication , is third additional financing to support substantial past investments. The investments, she said have paid off handsomely with the country now on the verge of polio eradication. “The objective of the project is to assist the Government of Nigeria, as part of a global polio eradication effort, achieve and sustain at least 80% coverage with Oral Polio Vaccine (OPV) immunization in every State in the Country and improve Routine Immunization.”
The project will be coordinated by National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) at the Federal level and implemented in the 12 lagging States of Adamawa, Bayelsa, Gombe, Jigawa, Katsina, Kogi, Nasarawa, Niger, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara.
The proposed project has three Components, including Polio Eradication Support, Routine Immunisation Support and routine Immunisation System Strengthening “The proposed project will help the implementation of national and state level Polio Immunisation Campaigns and support the procurement of vaccines for Routine Immunization. It will procide critical needed funds to aviod any disruption in Polio Eradication activities, sustain coverage and prevent deterioration in Routine Immunization
It will also support further the scale up of immunisation activities which include: Others include the introduction of powerful new vaccines against rota-virus diarrhea, measles and meningitis which are major killers of children,Strengthening the management of the immunisation programme at the national and subnational levels, as well as Support for the cold chain and logistic systems. The Minister noted that it “is important to know that Nigeria is making significant progress on Polio Eradication. The country has officially interrupted the transmission of wild polio virus with no recorded cases in the last 21 months and if there are no cases by July 2019, Nigeria will be certified polio free.” She also announced the award of Contract for the supply and installation of Rapiscan Mobile Cargo Scanner-Eagle M60, training of120 officers and integration of Rapiscan Eagle M60 Scanners into Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System II.
Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) is seeking the approval of the Federal Executive Council to procure 3 Units of Rapiscan Mobile Cargo Scanner-Eagle M60 including 30 months on-site service/support and maintenance, training of120 officers and integration of Rapiscan Eagle M60 Scanners into Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System II (NICIS II) from Messrs Air Waves Limited at the sum of N8,047,425,000.00
Adeosun said there are no functional scanners in all the ports for the operations of Nigeria Customs Service as the once previously installed are now unserviceable. The development has negative effect on the operations of the Service. “To solve this challenge, NCS has identified Rapiscan Mobile Cargo Scanner-Eagle M60 as a suitable option and Messrs Air Waves Limited is an accredited representative of the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Messrs Rapiscan Systems Limited, USA, with vast operational experience which is transferred to clients through Technology and Skill Development programmes.” The contract cost includes, delivery of 3 Units Rapiscan Mobile Cargo Scanner Eagle M60., On-site services/support and maintenance for next 30 months after installation and commissioning of the scanners, Provision of spare parts for 36 months after installation and commissioning. Others include training of One hundred and twenty (120) NCS officers and integration of Rapiscan Eagle M60 Scanners into Nigeria Integrated Customs Information System II (NICIS II) and future upgrade.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 