As part of its efforts to tackle some of the challenges facing youths in Nigeria and empower them to succeed through working, learning, thriving, connecting and leading in order to further reduce the number of unemployed youths in the country, Amaka Chiwuike-Uba Foundation (ACUF), a non- profit organisation, has trained more than one hundred youths in Enugu metropolis on how to create a good curriculum vitae (CV) and cover letter, for possible employment. Chiwuike Uba , founder of (ACUF), explained that the training exercise was an opportunity to educate job-seekers on some of the factors inhibiting their ability to get appointments for job interviews and also succeed there because failures were largely attributed to poor CV and interview skills. “There is need in this country to show concern about the number of graduates roaming the streets in search of jobs, but were denied possible opportunities for employment because of their CVs,” said Uba. He noted that a job seeker’s CV was the first contact with a prospective employer and would have to be put in a proper perspective, as it would make or mar the applicant’s chances of getting a job. “There are a ‘million and one’ graduates being churned out by universities across the country but with few organisations willing to absorb them. First is due to a very high disconnect between the universities and the industries, leading to university curriculum that does not address the industry’s need and the poor written CVs,” said Uba. The event held in Enugu in June under the Foundation’s Youth Development and Leadership Workshop Series (YouDaL), with the theme: ‘Visioning and Goal Setting’. Uba alluded to competition in the labour market, stating that only a well-written CV would see a job seeker stand out in a multitude. “There is no need having a killer CV that gets you to every interview, when you lack the skills to navigate questions that are asked you during interviews,” he said. Uba said that YouDaL envisioned youths that became empowered leaders with skills and confidence to actively develop and empower self, family as well as transform the community towards positive change.  ANTHONIA OBOKOH 