Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, governor of Gombe State, a graduate of Accounting from Ahmadu Bello University. He went on to obtain a Master of Science degree in Economics from the University of Lagos, in 1992 and a PhD in Accounting from Igbinedion University. His name, along with the names of other seasoned politicians and technocrats have been making the rounds of those who are interested in occupying Aso Rock, and controlling the affairs of the largest economy in Africa, leading it to the Promised Land come 2019. Recently, Yoruba Solidarity Alliance (YSA), a group drawn from the South West, has thrown its weight behind Dankwambo, saying he is the most marketable presidential material for the PDP. The group said the 55-year-old governor is the only one who can represent the interest of the youth and defeat All Progressives Congress (APC). “Nigerians have evidently become disillusioned as a result of countless broken promises of the APC,” the group said, adding that “Only a man of known performance and integrity like Ibrahim Dankwambo can readily appeal to the electorate during the 2019 presidential elections. “Now that the ruling party has demonstrated its inability to offer better governance, PDP cannot afford to seek the trust of Nigerians once again with any serial presidential candidate that is bogged down with moral burden and encumbrance of corruption,” it said. According to the group, “It is amply evident that the long suffering Nigerians have had enough of gerontocracy while majority of them are prepared to do away with this unworkable idea in 2019. “What the nation needs at this time of untold economic hardship and insecurity is a much younger president who is fresh with new ideas and innovative concepts and Dankwambo is the only way out in 2019 especially with his proven achievements.” In January 2018, controversial Reverend Father Mbaka of the Adoration Church, far away in Enugu State, had made some predictions in line with the YSA leanings that Dankwambo would replace President Muhammadu Buhari in Aso Rock, Nigeria’s seat of power, in 2019. That prediction was promptly refuted and referred to as ‘fantasy’ by Coalition of Gombe State Indigenes through Muhammad Jibrin Barde, insisting that if the reverend father was well apprised of the state of affairs in Gombe, he would certainly not recommend Dankwambo as a worthy replacement for the ‘great President Buhari’. The coalition went ahead to list some of the alleged damage done to Gombe State and its indigenes by the Dankwanbo administration. It stated that Gombe town had battled with lack of potable drinking water since independence, and the previous administration of Senator Danjuma Goje took this as a priority, spending over N8 billion to ensure provision of water across the state and specifically within Gombe metropolis. “Dankwambo refused to make an annual budgetary spending of only N200 million required to maintain the supply of water. Today, you will easily find water in the desert before Gombe State,” the coalition said, adding that “Gombe State education system was adjudged one of the best in the country, with a State University founded by the previous administration being rated as one of the top 10 state-owned universities in Nigeria as at 2011.” Barde said as with the water project, Dankwabo did not continue with the required funding of the university. “Today, the university and the entire educational system are in shambles and our classrooms are playground for idle students without teachers who have left en mass due to unpaid salaries. Our hospitals, which were modernised and fully equipped, are now mortuaries and consulting clinics,” Barde said. Barge said pensioners are yet to be paid and dying, despite the Paris Club refunds and bailouts engineered by the Federal Government and the committee of governors to assist state governments clear arrears of workers emoluments. “These are few examples to show the extent Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo, with all his accounting credentials, has wreaked havoc in our state in just six years of his maladministration. He has reversed the glorious achievements of the previous administration and destroyed all the good works of the distinguished senator, Danjuma Goje. “I advise Father Mbaka to travel to Gombe State and visit the state university, hospitals and water projects in Gombe town and all the other 10 local governments of Gombe State and tell Nigerians his findings”. Meanwhile, several articles on the internet are full of praises of the man. Leaders.NG, an online news platform, said: “In the last dispensation, Governors Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso (then PDP) of Kano and Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo were undisputedly two of the best governors in the federation. “Dankwambo’s case was even unique in the sense that he had little resources at his disposal when compared with his then Kano colleague and those of the southern states, yet, his performance rivalled and eclipsed those of his peers.” The above statement is a huge departure from the gloomy picture painted of Dankwambo’s tenure as governor of Gombe State by the Coalition of Gombe State Indigenes. Leaders.NG, went on to add that, “Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo became a poster Governor for the PDP in Gombe state and the entire northeast, not even the change mantra of the APC and Sai Baba wind was able to sweep him out of office in the 2015 general election. He came head to head with Senator Danjuma Goje’s political machinery and triumphed comfortably. He became the only PDP incumbent Governor to deliver his state to the party in the entire northern region.” Those rooting for Dankwambo to become the next president say critics are yet to find any loophole to pin him. “He is a professional, a perfect technocrat, he is still in his prime years at 54, and he represents the call for generational shift in leadership that we all yearned for.” “With the situation of things in the country, it only makes sense for a real fresh air to step in, fix the country and safeguard it from total comatose. “What else does Nigeria need in 2019 other than this professional Accountant? We gambled in 2015, we can’t afford to toe the same line in 2019. He is a 21st Century technocrat who understands 21st Century solutions to the myriads of problems in Nigeria. He has no corruption case or any baggage hanging on his neck.”  The man Dankwambo He was born on the April 4, 1962.  He graduated from Ahmadu Bello University in 1985 with a degree in Accounting. He obtained a Master of Science degree in Economics from the University of Lagos in 1992 and a PhD in Accounting from Igbinedion University.  He began his career with Coopers & Lybrand in 1985, and worked at the Central Bank of Nigeria from 1988 to 1999. He was then appointed Accountant General of Gombe State, holding this position until 2005.  He was appointed Accountant- General of the Federation on 20 April 2005. He held this office until he resigned to start his campaign for election as Governor of Gombe State January 2011. In the 26 April 2011 election, Dankwambo won 596,481 votes, ahead of Abubakar Aliyu of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) with 91,781 votes and Senator Sa’idu Umar Kumo of the All Nigeria People’s Party with 84,959 votes. He is also a fellow with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA); Fellow, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria (FCTI); Fellow, Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (FCIB) and Fellow, Nigeria Institute of Marketers (FNIM).  MABEL DIMMA