A former governorship aspirant in Adamawa state on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Emma Bello, has affirmed that the ruling party is already dead in Adamawa following the alleged failures of the party in the states and across the country. Bello said this on Tuesday while addressing the National Working Committee of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), which he officially joined on March 4, stressing that he dumped the APC with over 15,700 supporters SDP, adding that he has found home in the SDP under which he has declared to contest the Adamawa state governorship. Bello, who was received at the SDP secretariat onTuesday in company of former APC chairmen of Hong and Jada, Ahmed Yerima and Adamu Sarki respectively, lamented that the APC became notorious for politics without direction, which has forced many members to abandon the party. “Since I became the member of APC in Adamawa state, I have never been invited for a meeting of any structure of the party in the state. That is because no meeting of any of the party’s structure by people authorised to do so. In technical terms, the party is dead in Adamawa state and its relics in the pocket of a few. “Today, the truth is that what is left of the party lacks cohesion and unity required to present a common front. It is obvious that we had been strange-bed-mates in APC in Adamawa state,” he said. He noted that his decision to join the SDP was predicated on its philosophy, ideals and fundamental political vision, which he believes are in consonance with his convictions. “You will agree with me that it was purely my search for political serenity in Nigeria that propelled my relentless search for appropriate platform that is based on ideology and philosophy of the founding fathers of this great nation. “In this circumstance, therefore, I have I will like to inform you that I have resigned my membership of APC as from 3rd of March 2018 at my ward in Garkida, Gombi Local government area of Adamawa state,” he said.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja