The Entrepreneur, an educative business reality TV programme calculated to offer mind transforming tools for, and deep insights into business for young entrepreneurs will be launched in October this year said Olusoji Moses, president, Champion Space Foundation. Moses recently disclosed this to journalists at a press conference at Island Heights Hotel, in Victoria Island. The reality show was conceived out of the believe that young people can contribute to the stable growth and development of the country’s economy, as a result, it challenges the norm in Nigeria’s reality TV shows which only entertains, by fusing its educative content with entertainment to build teamwork, leadership, competence, and accountability in youths. The Entrepreneur will be enabling youths who are interested in entrepreneurship to know how to run their businesses. Housemates will get understanding on the business landscape of Nigeria, and taught what a business person ought to know. Organised by the Champion Space Foundation, the show seeks a total of twenty-five housemates who will then be divided into five groups, and participants are required to pay a sum of N3, 000 for registration online. “The Entrepreneur Business Reality TV show will be encompassing in terms of how we see business. Business needs to be done in a different approach. The Entrepreneur will be teaching all these areas on start, manage, and sustain, and also the chain of successional plan. Being successful is when your business can outlive you, meaning that while you are not in the scene, your business is still running. “I’ve also come to realize that a lot of Nigerian businesses are yet to get to that point. The Entrepreneur is going to develop this angle and build sustainable plan that would help a lot of young people build competence that will make them stand within the seasons of business,” said Moses. Chukwuma Moye, GD, Delta State Economic Summit Group, who also will be one of the judges thinks the show has the potential to be a catalyst to actually spur young people to getting into entrepreneurship. “And I like the fact that it covers a lot of areas, like Agriculture, media.” Like all reality TV shows, The Entrepreneur will feature live eviction shows on Sundays and Women’s Hub, Business Day’s Editor Kemi Ajumobi will be co-anchoring the eviction shows. “I believe that it’s going to turn out well, and I believe it’s going to change the way young people see business. The fact that it’s going to be giving an opportunity to people who have never done something like this before within the age of 18 and 35 is a laudable thing and I think it’s going to be a success. It is going to be a win-win thing because those who were not selected will not be left out” Ajumobi said. The winning group gets twenty million Naira, the second group gets fifteen million Naira, while the third group goes with ten million Naira. 