Jim Ovia, founder and chairman of Zenith bank plc, has called for digitisation of the Nigerian economy and the use technology to drive the manufacturing process, agriculture and healthcare, for sustained growth. “So, for us to blossom the Nigerian economy, lets start to digitise the economy. if we digitise the economy, it will continue to grow”, Ovia said while speaking at a book launch titled “Africa Rise & Shine”, which he authored. He noted that today, the GDP per capita of many African countries is well above $1,000, whereas about 20 years ago, it was below $500. The book launch was well attended as many important personalities In and outside the country graced the occasion with the likes of the vice president of the federal republic of Nigeria, professor Yemi Osinbajo, the former governor of lagos stae Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the executive governor of Lagos state, Akinwunmi Ambode ,the governor of the central bank of Nigeria Godwin Emefiele, Akintola Williams, many of the author’s protégés including the governors of Borno and Akwa Ibom state, Babtunde Fowler, executive chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, traditional rulers and many more personalities of which they all had things to say about the book and the author. Osinbajo commended Jim Ovia greatly saying that Ovia’s life was worthy of emulation for a man whose father died when he was just five years old, he struggled like any other youth before rising to where he is today, from nothing to being worth 6 trillion naira and also one of the most successful entrepreneurs in Africa, adding that he did not prevail as a result of family help, rich background or being a superman ,his is an overwhelming story that reflects grace ,time and hard work. Speaking about the book at the event, Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said Jim Ovia shares very important words of wisdom, drawn from his more than 38-year experience as an undeniable trail blazer in Nigeria’s banking sector, as well as his experience in the telecommunications and insurance sectors. “The book conveys an inspirational message on universal principles that are applicable in every country, which can serve as a guide to millions of young Nigerians on how to succeed, especially not only because of the opportunities around you, but also despite the challenges in your environment”, Emefiele said. Speaking further, Emefiele said, “As you will find in the book, these factors were instrumental in enabling him to build a US$16 billion conglomerate from barely N20 million at start-up of this empire. For those of us who know him and have worked under him, Mr. Jim Ovia is a stickler for knowledge and is deeply committed to excellence”.  HOPE MOSES-ASHIKE 