The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has asked the National Assembly to immediately open an investigation into alleged siphoning of over N11 trillion by the cabal in the Buhari Presidency, concealed under the supervision of the immediate past Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun. The party said its position is predicated on allegations that the Buhari Presidency and the All Progressives Congress (APC), being aware of the former minister’s NYSC Exemption certificate forgery, used her to conduit the siphoning of trillions of naira from the national treasury. The party urges the parliament to probe the books of the finance ministry under Adeosun’s stay as well as the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, which is under President Buhari. This, the party, explained would expose those behind the N9 trillion fraudulent oil contracts detailed in the NNPC leaked memo, N1.4 trillion fraudulent oil subsidy regime; alleged diverted N1.1 trillion worth of crude oil through 18 illegal companies linked with APC interests, among others. A statement by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary on Sunday, also insisted that Adeosun must be made to explain how the $321 million (N115 billion) repatriated by Switzerland was allegedly re-looted. It would be recalled that the embattled former minister had tendered her resignation letter last week after admitting that her NYSC Exemption Certificate was forged. The statement reads: “Adeosun must also be made to tell Nigerians how a cabinet minister close to President Buhari directly stole $16.9 million (about N7billion) from the returned $321million as non existent legal fees before the fund became an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) for members of the Presidency cabal and APC leaders. “The former minister should also be made to expose where the pressure that compromised the system for the stealing of over N25 billion National Health Insurance Scheme fund (NHIS) from the Treasury Single Account (TSA) was initiated. “The PDP invites Nigerians to note that President Buhari, as ‘Mr. Integrity’ has refused to order any investigation into huge allegations of corruption and stealing under his watch, particularly those in the petroleum sector, where he directly presides as minister. “Since it has become clear that Mr. President is providing official cover for corruption under his regime, the PDP urges the National Assembly to subject all officials of the Buhari administration to an integrity test, as Nigerians can no longer bear consequences of a pretentious administration run by very corrupt individuals and fraudulent characters”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 