Serah Boulos, Pradip Tiwari, Michael Thomas others arrives Lagos Nigeria ahead of The Africa Youth Leadership & Economic Summit tagged GET AHEAD
The Africa Youth Leadership & Economic Summit team in collaboration with Business Day newspaper ltd has today announced the launch of its latest initiative to prepare young leaders for a rapidly-evolving world as directors unveiled the new ‘Get Ahead Conference’ which aims to familiarize young leaders
from Nigeria and neighboring West African countries on the unique cultural, workplace and business environments at an event which will hold as follows:
29th September 2018 Golden Tulip Hotel & Conference Center Amuwo Odofin/Festac Lagos Nigeria.
9:00am prompt. This new programme marks yet another way in which AYLES has been placing emphasis on young generations as the engines of growth, both in our respective societies and in the relationship that is rapidly evolving between African countries.
When our correspondence visited the Founder of the project Sucex Bright popularly know in his circle as Prof he said they are excited to announce that following the positive responses we got from delegates at the last AYLES conference held at Eko Hotels, we have been able to launch a new initiative which will allow young people at the very forefront of politics, carrier and businesses in Africa to become more familiar with how to get ahead of their contemporaries with ease.
Gaining a greater understanding of how businesses are started and sustained and also excelling in the workplace through meeting with those with success stories in the field can only be a positive force in
driving the sorts of constructive engagement which will be so necessary for the delegates attending the
conference, and our emphasis on young people will help us to prepare the leaders of the future for the big questions that lie ahead.”
Details of the application process have been published on eventbrite and on The Orator Project website
www.oratorproject.com and across a range of other social media platforms. Potential participants from
states in Nigeria and other West Africa countries between the ages of 18 and above who can demonstrate their readiness to get ahead in their career or business endeavor can register here on those links or at the venue. The corporate communication team can be reached on 07014757441, 08068722253.
If you have been to any of our conferences before then you know that this one will be worth your time,
a range of industry experts both in businesses and careers have been carefully selected to give you value
for your time he further said.
Get Ahead & Stay Ahead click here to see the profile of other Guest speakers and panelists.
http://www.oratorproject.com/speakers-profile/
To get updates follow the organizers on Facebook and Instagram @aylesconference 