On September 22, 2018, the electorate in Osun State will be going to the poll to elect a successor to Governor Rauf Aregbesola, who has been in the saddle since November 27, 2010. Osun State, since its creation, has seen five governorship elections and even before election would hold, many keen political watchers would have predicted correctly where the pendulum would swing. However, the forthcoming governorship poll remains one without a clear favourite just days before the poll. It is also the governorship poll with the highest number of candidates so far. As many as 48 political parties are fielding candidates in the election. Out of the lot, five candidates are prominent and anyone of them has the chance of winning the election. The five top candidates are Iyiola Omisore of Social Democratic Party (SDP), Ademola Adeleke of People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Gboyega Oyetola of All Progressives Congress (APC), Fatai Akinbade of African Democratic Congress (ADC), and Moshood Adeoti of Action Democratic Party (ADP). Gboyega Isiaka Oyetola He emerged through a controversial direct primary against the wish of many others seeking APC governorship ticket and since picking the ticket, he has been going about meeting those that were discontented about the manner the primary was held. Despite this, the dust raised by Oyetola’s emergence in the primary may eventually turn his albatross in the main election. However, that he won the battle against formidable forces that includes deputy speaker, House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuf, former Secretary to Osun State Government, Moshood Adeoti, and over 20 others that vied for APC ticket with him, speaks volumes of his ability. Oyetola, first and only political appointment till date is that of Chief of Staff to Osun state governor, which he only relinquished few weeks back. Nonetheless, during his almost eight years in office, Oyetola’s performance as revealed by past and present Commissioners, also Governor Aregbesola was exemplary. He acquitted himself so perfectly with governance and its intricacies that he was practically running the government, especially during Aregbesola’s second term in office. While this makes insistence by Aregbesola that Oyetola should succeed him a product of fruitful search of the most ideal successor, his deep involvement in the outgoing government also makes him the first point of attack by the critics of the administration for the failings of the administration, since the governor himself had repeatedly described him as the power-broker. His chances Oyetola’s chances rest squarely on how well APC and Aregbesola are able to market him to the electorate in the state. And this is being done by outlining the achievements of the outgoing administration in the state. At all rallies held so far, Oyetola’s message has been that of continuity and consolidation and, should this be bought by the electorate many of whom rate highly Aregbesola’s reign, it may translate to huge vote for the APC candidate. Oyetola is also seen as a perfect successor to Aregbesola by many keen followers of political events in the state going by the kind of influence he exerts in the administration and to keep the machinery of state moving at same tempo and direction, the APC candidate may be considered by many as the best man for the job. Similarly, the calmness and thoroughness of Oyetola has endeared him to many, especially core professionals, academic and the elderly ones. Should these categories of people based on this give him block of votes, this may go a long way in winning the poll for him. The fact that Osun Central Senatorial District, where Oyetola hails from, has the largest number of voters and also has Osogbo and Olorunda local government areas, whose votes gave Aregbesola almost 40% of the votes that made him governor in 2014 is also to the advantage of the APC candidate. If he is able to get large percentage of the Senatorial District to back his ambition, he will surely have a good outing on the election day. Oyetola has financial war-chest to prosecute election and this is being backed by the national leader of APC, Bola Tinubu and the entire ruling party machinery in the country. Limitations The APC candidate emerged through a rancorous primary election and appeared to have been foisted on other governorship aspirants. During the run off to the primary election, other governorship aspirants accused the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole and other bigwigs of the party of plot against efforts by the people of West Senatorial District to produce Aregbesola’s successor. The ghost of that exercise is still haunting not only APC as a party, but also the product of that primary. Oyetola may not have block votes from the West Senatorial as it was for Governor Aregbesola in 2014, even though his running mate, Adegboyega Alabi from Ikire town hails from the West Senatorial. Similarly, some sections of the state regards the choices of Gboyega Oyetola as APC candidate and that of his running mate, Adegboyega Alabi as two professionals with little political knowledge of Osun and its peculiarities. This may also count against APC at the poll. APC as a party is presently at its least ebb of popularity since its formation in Osun state. The seeming discontent against President Buhari and by extension APC, poses a threat to Oyetola’s chances in the poll. While Oyetola shares in the accolades going the way of Governor Aregbesola for the huge success his administration has recorded in almost eight years in the saddle, the APC candidate shares in of the blames for the misdeeds of the administration. Nuredeen Ademola Adeleke He shot into the political limelight when he was elected senator, representing Osun West Senatorial in July last year, thereby replacing his brother, Isiaka Adeleke, who died in May that year. Before defecting to PDP and subsequently picking the party’s Senatorial ticket, an indigene of Ede town, Adeleke had earlier vied for the ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC), on whose platform his late brother was elected into the Senate. But Governor Aregbesola and the APC leadership in the state openly opposed his ambition to replace his brother. He was eventually forced out of APC. The older Adeleke was the first executive governor of Osun and spent 22 months in the saddle before Gen Sani Abacha-led federal government sent the governors elected during the aborted Third Republic packing. The 58-year-old federal parliamentarian, since stepping into the shoe of his late brother, has not looked back, hence when he formally joined the governorship race on the platform of PDP, the political machinery of his late brother instantly swung to action and ensured he emerged through a keenly contested governorship primary of PDP. His chances Adeleke rode into the Senate on the influence and popularity of his late brother, Isiaka Adeleke, who until his death was in contention for the APC governorship ticket. His one year in the Senate witnessed continuation of live changing initiatives for people of West Senatorial District the older Adeleke often engaged in while alive. Senator Adeleke gave out university scholarships for many admission seekers from the West Senatorial, provided transformers for many areas and sponsored many empowerment programmes. His emergence through PDP governorship primary was seen by some as a response to the agitations by the people of West Senatorial to produce Aregbesola’s successor and he is largely seen across all parties fielding candidates in the governorship election as West Senatorial District candidate. Also, the late former governor Adeleke even in death remains a huge factor in Osun politics and the love people have for the deceased is gradually being transferred to the younger Adeleke and based on that sentiment, many old allies of Governor Adeleke may vote for his younger brother. It is expected that the two local government areas of Ede North and South located in Senator Adeleke’s hometown, as well as Egbedore local government will give him block votes. This may signpost a victorious outing for him, if he can add few more local government areas, especially in Osun Central and East Senatorial Districts. The PDP governorship ambition is enjoying the backing of one of Nigeria’s richest men, Deji Adeleke, meaning that getting funds for the project will not be hard. The decrease in the acceptability of APC in bed to the state among the elites and civil servants may work in favour of the PDP candidate in the poll. Limitations The dust raised by the PDP governorship primary is yet to settle, as many supporters of especially of the man that came second in the election, Akin Ogunbiyi, still harbour bitterness against Adeleke for allegedly manipulating the outcome of the exercise. This may affect his chances at the poll, though efforts are on to permanently end the cold fight between the two camps by the leadership of the party. The issues surrounding Adeleke’s O Level results are giving him a bad public image and this may put many people off and thereby reducing him votes. Christopher Iyiola Omisore He is the most experienced politician in the race and hails from Ile Ife. Since bursting into Osun’s political limelight in 1997, Senator Omisore was elected deputy governor. He was elected Osun state deputy governor in the year 1999 on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and was elected Senator in 2003 on the platform of PDP. In the year 2007, Omisore was re-elected into the Senate for another plan but failed to get another term in 2011. In the year 2014, Omisore ran for the office of the governor and lost to the incumbent, Governor Aregbesola. After failing to install his followers as Osun PDP state executives, Omisore dumped the party and picked the governorship ticket of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Chances He is still enjoying cult-like following across the state, even as his kinsmen in Ile Ife are expected to give him block votes. He has the experience and a war-tested political structure that can deliver the governorship poll, if well funded. Senator Omisore is financially stable and has all it takes to finance a governorship poll. Being the only Christian among the top five governorship candidates in the race, Christians in the state may give him block votes. Limitations The platform on which Senator Omisore is contesting is weak. SDP is new in Osun politics and if the former Deputy Governor could fail to land the governorship seat while contesting on a solid platform like PDP in the past, seeking same position on a weaker platform like SDP may make the ambition a tall dream. Many Omisore’s foot-soldiers are still in PDP and relying on the few that are left with him, and new ones may be too much of a risk ahead of a crucial poll like the one he faces on September 22. Senator Omisore hails from Osun East, same Senatorial District as Governor Aregbesola. This may mean many people from Osun West Senatorial that last occupied the seat of governor in the year 1993 vote against him. Fatai Akinade Akinbade He served as secretary to Osun State government for over seven years during the reign of Olagunsoye Oyinlola. He hails from Ogbaagba, a town in Iwo local government area of Osun West Senatorial District. Akinbade served as Commissioner for Works during the military era and was instrumental to construction of some strategic roads across the state. Akinbade’s first attempt to govern the state ended in defeat in 2014, when he contested the gubernatorial election on the platform of Labour Party (LP). He also contested PDP governorship ticket but lost it to Adeleke before he defected to his present party. He is quite popular in the state and enjoys solid support of Muslim community in the state, as well as, several groups that can decide electoral victory in the state. His chances Going for Akinbade in the governorship race is his good reputation while in office. Many supporters of the former governor, Olagunsoye Oyinlola are also queuing behind him. The choice of the running mate is also an advantage for Akinbade, as many people in the state, especially civil servants and retirees have the belief that Justice Olamide Folaranmi (rtd) was fighting for their cause when she wrote to the state Assembly asking the members to impeach Governor Aregbesola over his many constitutional breaches. Limitations Getting funds for governorship project may be tough for Akinbade, who left public office over 8 years ago. Also the platform on which he is running is new and as such, many people that will even want to vote for him may end up voting another party they are more familiar with. Like Adeleke and Omisore, Akinbade may also get bulk votes, but the voting strength of Ogbaagba, a small town near Iwo, may not amount to much. Moshood Adeoti He was Action Congress (AC) chairman when the party won Osun State via a judgement of the Court of Appeal, Ibadan Division. Like his predecessor in office, Adeoti, an indigene of Iwo, was made secretary to Osun State Government, a position he held until he quit Aregbesola’s government and the ruling party. He was meant to be the beneficiary of ‘West Agenda’, the political movement working towards getting APC governorship ticket ceded to Osun West Senatorial District. It was a general belief that if indirect primary had been adopted to pick Osun APC governorship candidate, Adeoti would have emerged, but because direct primary was used, he opted out of the exercise. Adeoti, who while leaving APC pulled along some prominent members, especially those that worked for Aregbesola in 2007 during the disputed April 14 governorship poll, is a major contender and with the kind of crowd attending his rallies could pull the rug off the feet of others in the race. His chances Adeoti will surely have bulk of his votes coming from Osun West Senatorial. He is seen as the symbol of the struggle to get the governorship seat for the district. Iwo, Adeoti’s hometown, may also give him bulk votes, and with the calibre of former APC members that defected with him to ADP, he will surely give others in the race a good run in the poll. During his days as secretary to the state government, he had close relationship with many monarchs across the state, and if the relationships he must have forged during the period with the royal fathers are properly leveraged upon, Adeoti may pose a serious threat to APC and PDP candidates. Limitations Majority of his supporters are displeased APC members who were unhappy with the party for various reasons. Should the ruling party, during the last days to the election eventually settle the misgivings with his former members, Adeoti’s camp maybe depleted. Funding governorship project may be a tough call for Adeoti, who appears to be solely financing the project. Running on the platform of a new party may also not help the aspirations of the Iwo-born politician.  BOLADALE BAMIGBOLA, Osogbo 