A former governor of Kaduna State and immediate past national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ahmed Makarfi has lamented that the nation is being led by drowning men. Makarfi, who was at the PDP national secretariat to submit his presidential expression of interest and nomination forms on Friday, faulted President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise of paying N5,000 to unemployed Nigerians. The former lawmaker stressed the need for the country to be restructured. He said: “Every party men and women have not deviated from this policy. It is the principles and policy of PDP that we believe Nigeria need to be restructured in the interest of all us. “Nigeria need to be secured, there is too much bloodletting in this country today. We must restore sanity and stop this killings. It is not possible for this killings to be going on without one collusion or the other. The collusion can be from anybody, but there is no way the things is still going on without one collusion or the other.” Makarfi, who said he will replicate what he did when he was Kaduna State governor, added that he will put modalities in place to address the rots in the educational system. Similarly, speaking while submitting her form to contest the governorship position in Nasarawa State, former Minister of Information, Patricia Akwashiki, said she will break the jinx to become the first governor in the country. She said: “We have learnt our lessons where we have done things with impunity, we have apologised and we are also begging people. “I agree that it’s been a religious and cultural thing in the North. In 2015, Hajia Aisha Alhassan tried it in Taraba and she almost made it. I think it is possible that a woman can be a governor of any part of this country. “I’m the first female to go to the Senate, House of Representatives and the first woman to be given a minister. So, I think I will break that jinx and still be the first woman to become a governor in Nigeria. It’s not impossible. It is more cultural than religious.” Also, a governorship aspirant from Bauchi state, Abdul Ningi, who was also at the party national headquarters to pick his forms, noted that the state has derailed. Another governorship aspirant from Kwara State, Ibrahim Muhammed Ajia, said this is the time for the youths to take their rightful place. Ajia, who said he resigned from the police to join politics, added that “2019 is the time for the youths and we have the numbers and strength, if we do this nobody can stop us. Young people should actualise the struggle by campaign, complaining by side will not solve problem”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 