Worried by high level of gender imbalance in the nation’s education system, education experts have called for an improvement in girl child education to aid Nigeria in meeting her socio-economic potentials. Kathy Matsui, vice chair, Goldman Sachs Japan, in a recent study said that educating more females can lead to a “growth premium” for countries by growing the country’s GDP and per capita income.
Matsui believed that increasing investment in female education could raise Nigeria’s GDP growth by as much as 0.2 percent.
Muhtar Bakare, an education expert observes that improving female education undoubtedly has many personal benefits for girls themselves. “The higher the level of a female’s education, the more likely she is to marry older, bear her first child older. Educating girls also plays a positive role in breaking the poverty cycle, as the children of educated women experience better health, better education, and improved employment opportunities,” he said.
Research reveals that the benefits of enhanced female education go beyond the individual and her surrounding family and community.
According to UNESCO, girls’ education does not only bring the immediate benefit of empowering them, but also results to the best investment in a country’s development.
For some years now, governments, NGOs and private investors have been working throughout the country to get more girls into school. Basic considerations such as access to female hygiene facilities and having female teachers present in the classroom are being addressed, and parents themselves are being educated to enable them understand the strong personal and community benefits that come with providing adequate education for their daughters.
As female enrolment rates improve, and more and more girls enter schools across Nigeria, focus needs to turn to ensure girls are actually learning in schools, and learning the skills that they will need to secure a sustainable future. The issue turns from enrolment rates to the quality of learning taking place. Delivering quality learning rests on having three important and interrelated elements in place namely:
Having enough teachers and ensuring those teachers are suitably trained is fundamental to improving the learning outcomes of Nigerian girls. Providing on-going professional development training for teachers to keep them highly motivated and effective is also vital.
Analysts opine that availing girls with access to quality learning resources that promote engaged and effective learning aids the learning process while the provision of these resources themselves, is often enough to entice learners into the classroom.
They also said that embedding relevant and contextualised curricula that prepare learners for a 21st Century and globally orientated workforce help to guarantee future prosperity for female learners.
These suggestions are by no means a panacea for overcoming the challenges Nigeria faces in achieving gender parity in education. However, with the personal and nation-wide incentives for ensuring our girls enjoy a meaningful and positive education, we need to focus on practical ways to make universal education for girls a reality. Getting girls into school is the first step, making sure they are learning while they are there is the next.  KELECHI EWUZIE 