National Working Committee of APC on Tuesday directed that indirect primaries mode should be used in nominating governorship candidates in 19 states including Oyo. But Shittu who is also contesting for APC Governorship ticket in the protested that indirect primaries will give room for the  participation of delegates elected at the parallel congresses, particularly those illegally handpicked by the outgoing Governor, Abiola Ajimobi. The Minister in  a press statement made available to journalists in Abuja alleged that, “those to serve as delegates for the proposed indirect primary constitute the bulk of those handpicked for the ill-fated Congresses conducted in Oyo state where they were selected in a parallel congress”. He recalled that, “the said congresses produced two sets of delegates of which only the supporters of Governor Ajimobi, rather than those of Barrister Adebayo Shittu were recognized by the former national executive of APC. “This had led to litigation in the court in which is yet to be concluded. in this circumstance, it will only be fair that the party implement direct primary model to allow for fairness and unbiased process, for all candidates from both factions of the Party in Oyo State. “Is it not curious that of all the South Western States, it is only Oyo that is recommended for Indirect model which is deliberately being implemented to exclude Barrister Adebayo Shittu from having a fair opportunity to contest, participate and win in the gubernatorial primary election? “If Mr. President who has a country wide constituency has agreed to submit himself for direct primary, why would Governor Ajimobi’s faction refuse direct primary which allows all aspirants in the party to test their popularity and give party members a fair opportunity of voting for the candidate of their choice”, he queried. Shittu disclosed that his legal consultants, A. U Mustapha (SAN) & CO. have accordingly restrained the National Working Committee of the APC from conducting indirect primaries in Oyo as the conduct of congresses in the state was being challenged in the court of law. The written notice in this regard received by the office of APC National Legal Adviser on September 7, 2018 read; “we are of the view that conducting the party’s primary elections by way of indirect primaries in Oyo state will be sub-judice and an affront on the judiciary because the process that led to the emergence of the delegates is being challenged in court by the plaintiffs. ” In the circumstances therefore and in order not to be in contempt of court, we are of the considered view that direct primaries will be the only viable option. “We trust that you your good office will intervene with a view to ensuring that direct primaries are equally adopted by the party to determine the emergence of the party’s candidates for the forthcoming general elections in Oyo state”. 