The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has threatened to severely deal with members opposing the adoption of direct primaries in nominating candidates for the 2019 general elections.
APC National Executive Committee, NEC had at its last Thursday meeting in Abuja resolved that both direct and indirect primaries as well as consensus nominations be utilized.
But barely 24 hours after NEC resolution on the mode of nomination, the National Working Committee, NWC of APC rescinded the decision and ordered for the adoption of direct primaries for nomination of candidates for all offices.
Yekini Nabena, APC National Publicity Secretary in a statement on Sunday said , “the attention of NWC has been drawn to an illegal meeting to hold on Sunday at Transcorp Hilton hotel in Abuja by some members of our Party organs, with a view to fault the decisions made by the NWC followed by the National Executive Committee (NEC) as regards the mode of the Party’s primary elections”.
According to Nabena, APC “want to state clearly that the meeting which has been fixed for 2pm is illegal and an attempt to puncture the sincere efforts being made by the Comrade Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC to reposition our Party ahead the 2019 General Elections and to ensure unity, equity and justice in the Party”.
He said, “the outcome of such meeting which is already known will be a nullity and we admonish our members to disregard such meetings in the interest of the Party. It is illegal to call such a meeting outside the purview of the constituted authority.
“The identities of those plotting such meetings have been identified and unless they desist from such they will be dealt with in line with the Party’s Constitution at the appropriate time.
“The NWC will resist any attempt to disrupt the current peace and harmony prevailing in our great Party after the exit of some members of our Party.
“We urge any member who is not satisfied with the decisions of the Party to utillize channels provided by the Party’s constitution to air their view.
“We remain focused in delivering good governance to Nigerians and above all ensuring the victory for our Party come 2019 and we will not be intimidated by the antics of a few in ensuring success for our Party”, the APC spokesman stated.  James Kwen, Abuja 