Former Lagos State chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Moshood Salvador, has been appointed as one of the chairman of the seven APC screening committee for the October 4 House of Assembly primaries to screen about 230 aspirants contesting for the 40 seats in the Assembly. In a ceremony at the party’s secretariat in ACME road in Ikeja, the party’s State chairman, Tunde Balogun, disclosed that other chairmen of the screening committee included; former Lagos State deputy governor, Femi Pedro; former member of the House of Representatives, Wale Oshun; a member of the Governor Advisory Committee (GAC), Yomi Finnih and Commissioner for Health, Jide Idris, among others. Meanwhile, former Commissioner of Commerce and Industry, Remi Adiukwu-Bakare; Lagos State chairman of the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN),  Dare Falade and Lagos State chairman of Democratic People’s Party (DPP), Tajudeen Yinus, among others yesterday joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos. Speaking during the defection programme held at the Lagos APC secretariat, the party chairman, Tunde Balogun, commended the defectors for joining the ruling party, saying that he is excited that progressives who have left APC are coming back to the ruling party. He also implored all the defectors to go back to their wards to register as members of APC, adding that the party will accommodate them in the affairs of the party Speaking on behave of the defectors , Adiukwu-Bakare,  assured the ruling party that she will work tirelessly and cooperate with all the party executives and leaders to ensure that APC had a good outing during the 2019 general elections. “The choice of Balogun as Lagos APC chairman made me to join APC because I believe that with Balogun at the helms of affairs, APC will be a comfortable party for me. I am here to work with all the party executives and leaders to ensure the party’s success. “I worked for PDP in my local government, Oshodi-Isolo during the 2015 general elections for APC to lose the council to PDP. I am back into APC now; I will ensure that PDP has no good outing in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Areas in 2019 elections. We will win the election and also win the Osun State governorship election. I can assure APC that more PDP people are still to APC. We will work together for APC victory.”  Adiukwu -Bakare said. 