The fourth edition of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search will hold in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State, between 13 and 15 September. The programme, sponsored by Pay TV company, GOtv, and organized by Flykite Productions, was conceived to unearth young and talented amateur boxers desirous of tuning professional. It will take the form of sparring sessions supervised by some of the country’s best boxing coaches, who will assess and select the boxers adjudged to be ready to move into the professional ranks. The programme will hold at Dunkin Pepper Gym inside the MKO International Stadium Complex. It is open to boxers between the ages of 18 and 25 from all parts of the country. Boxers selected by the coaches will have the licences paid for by the sponsors, undergo free medical examination and are in line to fight in coming editions of GOtv Boxing Night. This is the second time the event is holding outside Lagos since it debuted in 2015. Last year, it held at the Francis Aiyegbeni Boxing Gym, Wall Hotel, Ibadan. The first two editions held at the Lagos Boxing Hall of Fame Gym in Surulere, Lagos. Each of the previous editions attracted over a hundred boxers, out of which an average of 25 were adjudged ready to make the leap into the professional cadre. The programme has helped many boxers rise to local and international prominence. Reigning West African welterweight champion, Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, was discovered at the maiden edition of the programme. He went on to become the national champion before clinching the sub-regional title. He also, on two occasions, won the best boxer award at GOtv Boxing Night, earning cash prizes of N2million and N1million attached to the award. Other products of GOtv Boxing NextGen Search, who have come into the big time, include Ridwan “Scorpion” Oyekola, winner of the best boxer award at GOtv Boxing Night 15; Prince “Lion” Nwoye, Chukwuebuka “Wize King” Ezewudo and Osamudiamen “Chiso” Goodluck. Registration forms for the event are available free of charge at the Lagos Boxing Hall of Fame Gym, Nigerian Boxing Board of Control (NBB of C) Secretariat, National Stadium, Lagos; Alake Sports Centre, Abeokuta; and Akure Township Stadium, Akure.  Anthony Nlebem 