Emerging facts show that some of the principal officers within the All Progressive Congress (APC) may lose their seats as the House of Representatives set to reconvene from the two month annual recess. Sources privy to the workings of the House told Legislative Correspondents in Abuja, that the move was sequel to the recent defection of Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives. Dogara had last Wednesday, formally obtained Expression/Nomination form from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) signalling his final resolve to dump the ruling party. Meanwhile, the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yussuff Lasun (APC-Osun) had debunked reports on his defection. A group of lawmakers loyal to the Speaker, known as Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) had last Friday vowed to truncate ongoing schemings to oust Speaker Yakubu Dogara by the APC leadership. Meanwhile, some of the APC lawmakers who were part of the closed door meeting penultimate week at the National Assembly complex, have accused the embattled Speaker of betraying the collective trust bestowed on him by majority of lawmakers who rallied round him at the inception of the 8th Assembly. According to one of the lawmakers who spoke under condition of anonymity, series of strategic meetings would be held by APC caucus to decide on the next line of action. While reacting to the report on the defection of the Deputy Speaker, Wole Oladimeji, Chief Press Secretary to the Speaker, in a statement sent to BusinessDay, described the report as highly misleading and uncaled for. “The defection story of Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt Hon Sulaimon Yussuff Lasun to PDP is highly misleading and highly uncalled for. “Deputy Speaker has said it repeatedly that he is a progressive to the core and remains in APC. “It is the machinations of his political distractors who are head bent in maligning his political image that are spreading the rumour. “It would be recalled that Deputy Speaker warned against direct primary election held recently in Osun State, which has consequently led to the defection of other governorship aspirants who participated in the said direct primary election in the State. “The Deputy Speaker at several occasions publicly condemned the direct primary which is now causing disaffection among the party faithful across the country. “A silence does not mean that he has left the party, the rumour recently being spread is by his political distractors,” Oyewole argued.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 