The private sector of the Nigerian economy has been witnessing a drawback on credit facilities and allocations by deposit money banks. However, analysts are optimistic that bank credit extension will improve in the second half of the year. Report released by FBNQuest on Wednesday noted that “In H2 2018, we expect loan growth to pick-up to high single-digits as banks attempt to improve on H1. Upstream oil and gas, trade & commerce as well as manufacturing are likely to be beneficiaries”. BusinessDay analysis of Tier one banks revealed that banks have begun cutting down on loans and advances it extends to its customers as at H1 2018. According to financials released by 5 tier one bank to the Nigerian Stock Exchange Market, total loans and advances to customers declined by 6 percent from about N10 trillion in H1 2017 to N9.4 trillion in H1 2018. According to analysis, total loans and advances to customers by Zenith Bank and GTB declined by 11 percent respectively within the period while UBA, Access and First Bank saw loans declined by 10 percent, 3 percent and 1 percent respectively in H1 2018. Also, banking data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), total banking sector credit to the private sector declined by 2 percent to N15.3 trillion in Q2 2018 compared to N15.6 trillion in the previous quarter. This is the lowest recorded since Q2 2016 after deposit money bank’s loans surged by 17.64 percent to N15.5 trillion from N13 trillion recorded in previous quarters.  Consequently loan grew further to N16 trillion between Q3 2016 and Q1 2017. NBS data revealed that deposit money banks are more exposed to the oil and gas sector of the economy than other sectors. According to data, deposit money banks’ sectoral allocation of credit to the oil and gas industry accounts for about 23 percent of total allocation. Meanwhile manufacturing and trade & commerce accounted for 13 percent and 7 percent respectively. An assistant branch manager in one of the tier one banks who pleaded anonymity told BusinessDay during a phone conversation that, “the oil and gas sector is likely to be the most beneficial sector in credit allocations by banks in H2”. “This is largely due to political influences on the part of the government in ensuring this sector especially the upstream players are favoured because about 94 percent of export revenue is gotten from crude oil export” she added. “Banks to a large extent try to be safe with its credit extension however, despite the high volatility of the oil market, banks are willing to take higher risk which will guarantee higher return” she concluded. The Buhari led administration has promised the diversification of the Nigerian economy to boost non-oil revenue of the government. However, “the CBN multiple interventions to support the sector and compensate for the poor supply from the DMBs as proved rather insufficient to meet its high demand for credit” FBNQuest added. According to NBS data, credit extension to the agricultural sector accounted for only 3 percent of total allocated credit in Q2 2018. This leaves the question if bank management also take a position in the diversification plan of the government. Moses Ahmed, Investment Analyst at Investment One, “I think most banks are still concerned about the asset quality, so rather than increasing their loan books, banks are interested in reducing their NPLs which is around 14 percent on the average compared to regulatory threshold of 5 percent”. “The agricultural majorly get credit from CBN’s initiative such as Anchor Borrowers Scheme, Commercial Agriculture Credit Scheme at a single digit” he added. “Banks are really concerned about the credit risk of most companies particularly in the non-oil sector of the economy” he concluded. DMBs continue to maintain a cautious approach towards lending to the private sector, to avoid growing non-performing loans. Furthermore, despite the lower margins on Nigeria Treasury Bills, banks still prefer them because they are risk-free. 