Somehow, I found myself at CMS and since my ferry attempt failed, I opted for a bus. Soon, I found one. While I sat in a very dirty bus and on a seat that ached my spine, I pitied myself. But what made me burst was the sight of a makeshift accelerator. I could see the tiny cord that connects a pedal-like structure, wrapped with pieces of clothes and held together by tiny strands of fabrics. “Ah! oga” I yelled out, pointing to it the lurking disaster “is this good? What if this thing fails? If it is bad why not change it, or get a better bus, or…” “Wetin do am?” he cut in shouting. “Is there anything good in this country? See I don’t care about that one what I’m concerned about is my family. “This is my business; your own should be getting to your destination. Do you know how many children I have sent to school with this”, he said, “my family is all I’m worried about”, he repeated. That’s when I realized how degenerate  some of us have become as a people. This man doesn’t give a hoot about his passengers. In that moment, two words –‘misanthropy’ and ‘apathy’ came to mind in trying to explain this attitude and others’ I have seen. Apathy is a state of indifference, or the suppression of emotions such as concern, excitement, motivation, or passion. An apathetic person has a deficit of interest in or concern about emotional, social, spiritual, philosophical, or physical life (by extension, human life) and the world. On the flip side, misanthropy is the general hatred, dislike, distrust or contempt of the human species or human nature. It is hatred for mankind. These words may sound harsh or overboard. They may not aptly capture my thoughts, but my daily encounters leave me with fewer words to better describe the thoughtlessness of some Nigerians to the lives of others. Many have lost their sense of morality, and dignity. Most importantly, some have lost their sense of reverence for human life. Life in the world’s most populous black nation is no longer sacred, and this is evident in our actions against each other. It is this lack of concern, or apathy towards the feelings of others around us that makes us ‘deaf’ to a woman’s cry for help when being physically abused by her husband, or vice versa. You feel it doesn’t concern you, so you stay mute while she suffers on, then you brand it “family business”. But when domestic violence is mooted in the public, you’re the first to tweet about it. Hypocrite! Apart from the bloodshed that has morphed into a culture in the North, the average Nigerian on the street is ready to jeopardize your life to survive, even if it is just for that day. Similarly, “na only you dey suffer?”, or “He’s going to hell fire straight!” are types of comments you see when you visit an online thread on a suicide story. You see a lot of comments blaming the victim. You see an astronomical display of low emotional intelligence by some Nigerians. In order to eschew sounding expansive, I’ll spare you details on the level human rights violation perpetrated by Lagos commercial bus drivers and their conductors. Though many commentators blame their shenanigans on the absence of proper government regulation, my clash with a grey haired bus man as narrated above, shows how valueless some people have become. He blamed it on the retrogressiveness of the country when he asked: “Is there anything good in Nigeria?” Another conductor once told me; “If you’re good in this country, you won’t take money home”. So, what is the blueprint for making money in a government you aren’t happy about? Is it to be bad, become savages and kill each other? Misanthropy or apathy, which ever you believe is common in our midst; the truth is we can be better citizens.  Desmond Okon 