The Board of Trustees (BoT) of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has set up a 12-member committee to discuss with the party’s 12 presidential aspirants, with the view to picking one of them as consensus candidate. Chairman of the BoT, Walid Jibrin who disclosed this to our correspondent in a text message on Monday, said the committee would impress it on the aspirants the dangers inherent in having such a large number of them in the race. Describing the present number of aspirants as unwieldy, Jibrin said there were fears that could be disagreement among the contestants that could lead to major divisions after the primaries. The BoT chair, however said the committee would not compel any of the aspirants to withdraw from the race; adding that, “rather, they would be persuaded to put the interest of the party above their personal interests and ambitions”. Jibrin continued, “A committee has been set up to discuss with all the aspirants to come up with one of them as a consensus candidate. We have 12 of them in the race. “We have also advised the leadership of the party to regulate the processes and draw a code of conduct to guide the conduct and behaviour of the aspirants and officials to be engaged in the selection process. “Consequently, the BoT has forwarded its full recommendations to the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP for consideration”. Jibrin, whose tenure has been renewed for another five years, urged members of the BoT to always maintain their honour and integrity by remaining neutral in all the processes leading to the emergence of the candidate. Those in the race for the presidential ticket of the PDP are former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar; Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal; Gombe State Governor, Ibrahim Dankwabo; President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki; former Governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido; former Governor of Kaduna State, Ahmed Makarfi; and a former Special Duties Minister, Tanimu Turaki. Others are a former President of the Senate, David Mark; a former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso; a former Governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa; a former Plateau State Governor, Jonah Jang; and a former lawmaker, Baba Datti Ahmed.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 