Allen Onyema, the chairman of Air Peace,  has disclosed that the airline lost over N66 million naira on the disruption of its operations by the Nigerian Labour Congress, NLC on Friday September, 28 due to the ongoing minimum wage strike. Speaking during a press briefing in Lagos to outline its operational roadmap, Onyema lamented the selective disruption of its operation at the General Aviation Terminal in Lagos by the NLC and leaving other airlines to operate unhindered. The Air Peace chairman said the NLC deliberately targeted Air Peace, claiming that because it is the biggest domestic airline operator, that grounding its operations will shake the industry, thereby allowing other domestic airlines operating at the General Aviation Terminal, GAT and Murtala Muhammed Airport 2, MMA2 to operate. This lasted till around 11 am when the passengers decided to challenge them with force and they later regrouped and came back, Onyema explained. He called on the federal government to support Nigerian flag carriers to succeed by supporting them in international Aero politics. “The government should reciprocate when other countries are charging Nigerian Airlines high airport taxes and charges to frustrate them from flying into their country so as to protect their own domestic airlines”, Onyema said. He said by the suspension of the National carrier, President Muhammadu Buhari has challenged Nigerian airlines to succeed and start getting it right. He assured Nigerians and the federal government that Air Peace will make the country proud and will not disappoint. Onyema said the airline will fill the gap currently being occupied by international airlines and will drive down the price on the international route. The Air Peace boss noted that the growth of Air Peace was not by accident but through systematic and painstaking planing of its operations, adding that Air Peace has been faithful to its obligation to the banks. He also urged the government to improve on the airport infrastructure, the Navigational Aids and others so that the airlines can operate night flights. He cited the new Ghana Kotoka international airport that was just unveiled recently with state of the art facilities as the kind of airport that creates hub. He said this is the type of airport the country should have. 