Fireworks may have begun between the immediate past governor of Delta State, Emmanuel Uduaghan and the incumbent governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, ahead of 2019 general election. This is coming barely a week of Uduaghan’s defection from the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the state to the All Progressives Congress (APC) ruling at the federal level. While Uduaghan is accusing Okowa of embarking on a vindictive mission to “bulldoze” his legacies as  governor, Okowa on his part is accusing the ex-governor of spilling lies to the public, saying, “Deltans and Nigerians who visit the state daily are aware that the former governor has no legacies in his eight years in government, thus his day-dreaming claims of legacy projects will not fly.” By his conduct and utterances, Uduaghan needs to do more to convince Deltans that his desperate desire to become a senator should not make him feed the general public with lies about a non-existent legacy project(s), said Okowa, who spoke through the commissioner for information, Patrick Ukah in an interview with newsmen in Asaba. Okowa challenged Uduaghan to tell the world about the said legacy projects he claimed to have left behind which his (Okowa’s) administration has destroyed. Marriage between incumbent governor and ex-governors Uduaghan, who had served variously as Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and commissioner in the state, became Delta’s number one citizen from 2007 to 2015. He was said to have backed the candidacy of Anthony Obuh for governorship position in 2015 but his candidate failed as Okowa emerged the governor of the state. Obuh was later appointed the chairman Delta Bureau for Pension by the current administration. Uduaghan, who said he sacrificed his 2015 senatorial ambition because of former president, Goodluck Jonathan, has however remained in the PDP, backing Governor Ifeanyi Okowa-led administration. Many believed that the coming home of Uduaghan’s predecessor, James Ibori early 2017, after serving out his jail-term in the United Kingdom, would have automatically brought disunity in the ruling party in the state but that was not to be as the party waxed stronger with the two ex-governors and the incumbent cooperating. They have been in the party for over 16 years. In fact, in the recent months, Ibori and Uduaghan were always seen at public functions complementing the efforts of Okowa, causing pundits to read political undertone. Their political marriage was such that during public functions like commissioning of projects executed by Okowa administration, they would praise his sterling performance and further express support for his second term in office. They also called on Deltans to vote him back to power come 2019. Okowa on his own part would then boast of a united PDP and a united Delta State. Uduaghan dumps PDP for APC Change is one thing that is constant.  Uduaghan couldn’t hesitate any longer to change his political platform, hence, he chose last month ending (August) to defect from PDP thereby ending his “political marriage” between Okowa and Ibori. He said having sacrificed 2015, he would now contest for the senatorial seat in 2019. Few months ago, he had said there were high interventions from the likes of Ibori and Okowa stopping him from leaving PDP. Now, less than two days to September, he publicly announced his exit into APC where he plans to realise his political ambition. He cited President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment to the development of Niger Delta as the reason behind his defection to APC. “Since the inception of the APC-led Federal Government, there has been an encouraging interest and activities by President Buhari to bring a permanent solution to the Niger Delta crisis.” This, he said has pointed in a direction that is at once progressive and developmental. “Topmost in these activities are the engagement processes. Rather than using the military to harass our people, the Buhari administration has embarked on various engagement processes that have led to agreements and brought hope to the people of the Niger Delta. “Beyond the engagement processes, however, the Buhari administration has embarked on some infrastructural and human capital development activities as well as various human capital development programmes and several other projects across the region which has brought hope to the people. He described the president as one who was able to set his priorities pursuant to creating an environment for peace in the region. He then asserted that it became incumbent on every well-meaning Niger Deltan and Nigerian to assist the process of building an economically prosperous nation. The ex-governor said: “The Niger Delta is a major area of interest for me, because I staked my life going into the creeks severally without security and sometimes coming back at night negotiating peace. I will, therefore, give the strongest support to any President that shows commitment in the affairs of the Niger Delta”. Uduaghan boasted that he was going to the APC as John the Baptist to open door to the numerous Deltans that are coming in, soon – very soon. Fireworks between Okowa and Uduaghan Barely a week into his defection to APC, Uduaghan alleged that Okowa’s administration “is on a vindictive mission to bulldoze his (Uduaghan’s) legacies as governor. He denied allegation that he joined the APC for protection against the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) etecetra. Okowa fires back Okowa through his information commissioner, Patrick Ukah, fired back at Uduaghan, dwelling more on “bulldozing of legacy projects” “Since the recent defection of former Gov Uduaghan to the APC from the PDP, where he was bred and fed, we are inundated with both clandestine and visible plot to drag the Governor-Okowa-led government into his dwindling political fortune just to deceive the public and possibly score very cheap political point. “By his conduct and utterance, Dr. Uduaghan needs to do more to convince Deltans that his desperate desire to become a senator should not make him feed the general public with lies about a non-existent legacy project(s). “Deltans and Nigerians who visit the state daily are aware that the former governor has no legacies in his eight years in government thus his day-dreaming claims of legacy projects will not fly. “We challenge Dr. Uduaghan to tell the world about the said legacy projects he claimed to have left behind which this government has destroyed. “It is worth noting that the Uduaghan-led administration’s free healthcare program had a budget of about N700 million yearly providing free healthcare in urban cities and Secondary Health facilities only. No primary healthcare facility (PHC) in rural communities where the real people that need the free healthcare the most, was involved in the program. “Also, no proper records of people that actually received the free healthcare service was kept. And, the free healthcare service was limited and had no provision for the referral of serious cases. “In this administration, we now register all the people and have proper records of those that receive the service. It has been extended to rural communities PHCs where the real poor people that need it reside.  The service has been e expanded to ensure all children under five years and pregnant women in Delta State receive full healthcare services with referral for serious cases, drugs with materials required to provide service are available in these facilities all the time under the Contributory Health Scheme, free for all children under five years and pregnant women and paid for by Gov Okowa’s administration. “A man who couldn’t summon courage to vie for a senatorial election as a sitting governor is here, boasting about leading a failed mission to unseat a hardworking Gov Okowa who is committed to cleaning up the mess he left behind in his uneventful and sad era as governor. “It is indeed amazing that the same Dr. Uduaghan, who a few months ago endorsed Gov Ifeanyi Okowa for a second term on account of his sterling performance in spite of the downturn in the economy, displayed lack of integrity when he stylishly dodged the question on the performance of the governor, while on a television programme. Ukah observed that in the interview, the ex-governor made a statement that the Delta South senatorial district position is being zeroed down to a particular senator. He rather said part of Uduaghan’s anger was that “we were not narrowing the position down to him, adding that the party made it open that primaries would be free and fair. If you don’t want to subject yourself to that, you have the option to leave. Let him stay where he is and let peace reign, Ukah added. Ahead of the 2019 general election, political observers see more defections and fireworks and lovers of peace want a peaceful Delta beyond politics.  Mercy Enoch, Asaba 