President Muhammmadu Buhari has made case for a more efficient ports operation in Africa for greater competitiveness. The President stated this while declaring open, the International Association of Port’s and Harbours Africa Regional conference, in Abuja, on Monday. The President noted that after the issues of adequate security and transparency, “the one other important factor deciding the competitiveness of ports is the efficiency with which cargoes are evacuated to and from the ports”, adding that without doubt, this is “an area in which port operations in Africa need a lot of attention”.
The President said there are on-going discussions in Nigeria and other African countries on the expediency of investing in infrastructure that supports the many means of transportation between our ports and the hinterland. Buhari, while noting that African countries are facing the same developmental challenges as well as being endowed with large human capital and natural resources, urged the continent to work together and deploy our resources towards confronting those challenges. “Presently, one of the resources that we can proudly speak about as Africans is our maritime endowments. “A situation in which at least 39 of the 54 countries on the continent are either littoral or island states makes the formulation of policies for the effective utilization of our waters to our economies expedient. “Meetings like this put the issues in proper perspectives and serve as avenue for the generation of ideas that would aid our governments to formulate effective policies. The President assured that his administration is committed to rebuilding infrastructure that supports the means means of transportation from the ports to the hinterland, adding that “this interconnectivity will improve the country’s economic competitiveness as targeted under the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan.” “So for starters, I have directed that every port must have the complement of rail infrastructure. Our projection is that by the end of year 2021, we will have standard gauge railway across the main North-South trading route. “The same level of serious attention is being given to the improvement of road infrastructure. At the moment, 25 major highways and 44 roads are under construction across the six geo political zones of the country.  Furthermore, we have stimulated activities on our inland waterways. “Major inland river channels are being dredged with adequate channel markings for ease of navigation through the Eastern and Northern parts of the country. That is the best way to go if we plan to remain competitive in the maritime industry. He observed that the maritime sector is central to the facilitation of trade and the total integration of African economies. The conference with the theme: “African Ports and Hinterland Connectivity” is viewed as a testament of the determination of the organizers of the conference to collectively seek lasting solutions to the challenges that port operations face on the continent. 