Larry Ekundayo, Nigerian born European IBF Welterweight Champion, has urged the private and public sectors to invest in Boxing by establishing Boxing Academies in the country. Speaking at a reception in Lagos organized by Mother Esther Abimbola Ajayi, General Overseer, Love of Christ Church, Ekundayo said that the establishment of Boxing Academies would serve as spring board to develop the game of Boxing in the country. The 36-year-old Lagos born boxer added that the academies would breed pugilists in the country which has a growing population of teenagers and youths interested in taking Boxing as a profession. “I must confess that the road to fame for me has been a very torturous one. I started Boxing since the age of 12 and truth is that; I lacked the basis foundation or springboard with which I would have launched myself into the career,” said Ekundayo. “In fact, I kept asking myself if I was doing the right thing, but my spirit kept telling me not to lose focus.’’ He thanked Rev. Mother Ajayi for her investment and support towards his boxing career. According to him, ” Boxing goes beyond being talented and if you do not know the business of Boxing, you may not likely to succeed. I have always known I am talented, but I also needed to eat the right meals, train right and generally put myself in the right shape.’’ According to Rev. Mother Ajayi who hosted Ekundayo, alongside Khomeini Bukhari, Director, Africa Division Peel Aston Global and Ben Gray, Commercial agent to Larry and Hon Abimbola Animasaun-Abdul, she decided to extend a hand of fellowship to Larry Ekundayo because she believed in his talent and prowess. Rev. Mother Ajayi added that, ” I got a letter in my London home from the Ooni of Ife, His Royal Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunusi, and I never discountenance anything from the Ooni. Immediately, I saw him, I saw a Champion and we started to invest in his life through prayers and other areas. Today, he is a world champion and he has just even started. ‘’I am glad he is succeeding and I am compelled to do more for him.” Anthony Nlebem 