Workers in Nigeria will from this week know their fate on the proposed Federal government minimum wage as the National Minimum Wage Committee is set to meet with the Economic Management Team (EMT) headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The meeting, BusinessDay gathered at the Presidential Villa, over the weekend, is expected to review the reports of the National Minimum Wage Committee and come up with recommendations that will be submitted to President Muhammadu Buhari.
This is just as the Labour and Employment Minister, Chris Ngige, insisted that the new Minimum wage policy “must “be implemented before the tenure of the administration ends.
According to Ngige, “We have an economic management team meeting on Tuesday, specially dedicated to the issue of national minimum wage to be chaired by the Vice President. For anybody to say that this government is stalling or playing games will be uncharitable, because, we have done what we are supposed to do.”
Ngige however expressed concern over the non- payment of salaries by many state Governors, a situation he described as a major drawback to the implementation of the new minimum wage policy.
He also lamented the inability of some state governors to provide figures to be included in the debate by the committee negotiating the new minimum wage.
According to him” We have the interest of workers at heart, we have not retrenched anybody, there is no embargo on employment, there is no embargo on promotions, we are paying backlog of promotional arrears, and we are backing backlog of transfers and repatriation and the rest of them.
“So this government is a labour friendly government.”
Former Minister of Housing and member of the committee, Amma Pepple, while speaking with State House Correspondents on Friday, said the report will be presented to the President “very soon.”  According to her, “Everything is on course but we need a definite figure from government and of course we have to carry the states along. So, we need those figures so that we can include in our report.” On how soon the new minimum wage will be ready, Pepple said, “We are submitting our report to Mr. President this month.”
Ngige had on Thursday accused the organised labour of blackmail the government following a two-week ultimatum given by the latter for the conclusion of negotiation on the matter. He also accused Labour leaders of blackmailing and intimidating government to pass a new minimum wage that it may end up reneging on.
According to Ngige, the organised private sector had initially proposed a figure of N42,000 but later brought it down to N25,000, taking into account the current economic situation, ability to pay and ability to enhance and create new jobs. The organised labour had in May 2016 demanded a pay rise on the current N18, 000 national minimum wage to N56, 000. President Buhari had in November 2017 inaugurated the National Minimum Wage Committee with a mandate of arriving at a new national minimum wage.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 