Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi has signed into law, Ebonyi State Revenue matters (amendment) law 2018 and Ebonyi State Agricultural Land Development Authority law of 2018. Assenting the bill into Law at the Executive Chambers, Government House, Abakaliki, Gov. Umahi noted that the law on Agricultural land Authority was very important and timely as the state makes efforts towards self reliance on agriculture. He said that the law on Revenue matters will checkmate the fake revenue collectors as they would be no option of fine attached to the law stressing that any body convicted by the law in that regards would go to prison straight. Chief Umahi pointed out that any state that doesn’t pay tax was digging her grave as no investor will go to any state without looking at the internal generated Revenue and called on  the revenue Board members to be alive to their duties. On miscellaneous offenses, the Governor said that the law cut across many sectors especially that of the solid mineral and urge the Commissioner for solid mineral to grab the law and study it with the view of implementing it to the letter. He stated that the procurement law was compulsory and that they cannot function without those laws which he said took a lot of time to arrive at and commended the State House of Assembly for the quick passage of time the Executive bills. Earlier the Speaker, Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon.Ogbonnaya Nwifuru who was represented by his Deputy, Hon. Obasi Odefa explained that the essence of the quick passage was to complement the efforts of the Executive arm of government in good governance. He regretted that the Revenue laws had always been misconstrued to mean taxation adding that it was to give legal mussle to block all loopholes and leakages so that the state does not depend solely on Federal allocation. Other laws signed into law include Ebonyi State law to prohibit quackery in Orthodox medical practice, Ebonyi State private Education Institution law, Ebonyi State miscellaneous offenses law and Ebonyi State neighbourhood watch law.  Jacob Ogodo Abakaliki 