Another feather has been added to the cap of Nollywood’s global reputation, and burgeoning recognition through the buying of Lion Heart’s worldwide viewing rights by Netflix, a streaming media service based in the United States. While this feat elicited positive responses from colleagues, and brought eulogies to the producer, Genevieve Nnaji, what drew Netflix’s attention to Lion Heart became a thing of curiosity. However, she reveals that the success of the film which invariably motivated Netflix’s move was hinged on its authenticity. She told CNN: “I think it is the authenticity of the story which is what I loved about it. It has provided an environment where I could showcase the things that made me proud of our culture, our talents, our values. So it was really about that authenticity, and the story speaks for itself. Plus, we focused a lot on the quality this time”. This then implies that Nollywood could have a clear path for global prominence if a culture for more authentic stories is developed. There’s a chance that it could be the most sort after movie industry in the world. And with this new Netflix deal, it is already happening. “What this means is that we need to churn out more quality movies, which are worthy of such recognition. I am proud to belong to Nollywood and even happier that I’m witnessing this in my time. Don’t forget that some Nigerians were recently inducted into the Oscars jury, so this means that Nollywood’s Oscar dream is here,” Filmmaker, Charles Uwagbia, told Premium Times. But to leverage on and sustain this speculated uphill struggle for Nollywood films, the issue of funding, critical factor that determines the quality of films the industry churns out should be addressed. “For money, we had to self-fund unfortunately. Unfortunately, we don’t have adequate funding for movies that we actually intend to go global. There isn’t that provision yet,” Nnaji noted. Although Lion Heart is not the only Nigerian movie listed on the Netflix, it is however the first original Nollywood film to be bought by the American movie streaming medium. This deal is significant because of the promotion and marketing that accompanies Netflix’s branding of a movie as its original. Other Nollywood films currently showing on Netflix include Dearest Mummy Fifty, When Love Happens, The Wedding Party, Road to Yesterday, and The Visit. Lion Heart is Nnaji’s directional debut. It narrates the story of Adaeze, a young lady who steps up to the challenge when her father, Ernest Obiagu, is forced to take a step back from his company due to health issues. She works with her crude and eccentric brother to save the family business in dire financial straits resulting in crazy and often hilarious results. The movie features, Nkem Owoh, Pete Edochie and Onyeka Onwenu among others.  Desmond Okon 