As preparations towards the 2019 general election intensify, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that Lagos, Rivers and Abia states had the highest number of registered voters in the country which the commission estimates at about eighty four million after the completion of the Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) on August 31st. Rotimi Oyekanmi, chief press secretary to INEC Chairman Mamood Yakubu, stated this yesterday in an exclusive interview with BusinessDay, revealing that the three states surpassed any other state in the country. Oyekanmi stressed that the commission registered almost fourteen million voters in the sixteen months that the CVR was carried out across the country. “Lagos is leading with 725,437 new voters, followed by Rivers with 705,921, then Abia with 547,606 as at August 26. Recall that we had almost 70 million registered voters as at 2015. If we add the new figures, we will have almost 84 million voters on the Voters’ Register,” Oyekanmi said. “As at August 26, the Commission had registered 13,634,414 new voters. If we add the figures from August 27 to 31 when the exercise was suspended, we would hit the 14 million mark,” he further said. Oyekanmi however, lamented the slow pace of collection of the Permanent Voters Card (PVCs) across the country, revealing that the commission had adopted several measures to sensitise Nigerians. “We have adopted several measures, including but not limited to using traditional and social media outlets to create awareness on this. We have also appealed to all our major stakeholders, including the media, to help us create more awareness. We still have over 7 million uncollected PVCs and it will be in the best interest of democracy for the owners to collect them and actually vote during the general election,” Oyekanmi added. He stressed that the commission was working assiduously to print the PVCs for collection ahead of the 2019 general election, adding that the lists were being displayed at the registration centres across the country. “The next step is to embark on the process leading up to the printing of the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) of all those who registered from January to August 31 this year when the exercise was suspended. Already, the lists are being displayed at the various registration centres for claims and objections,” he said. Iniobong Iwok 