The National Executive Council NEC) of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has mandated all its organs and state chapters to embark on nationwide strike on Wednesday, 26th September, 2018 if Federal Government to conclude ongoing negotiation on the new national minimum wage.
The Council which is the highest decision making organ of the labour centre passed the resolution at the NEC meeting held in Abuja, also tasked all the state governments to prioritize payment of pensions and gratuity to retired civil servants.
Ayuba Wabba, NLC president disclosed this while reading the communiqué issued at the end of the meeting.
The resolution was passed after over six hours deliberations of the NLC’s National Executive Council, mandated its National Action Council (NAC) to declare industrial action at the expiration of the 14- day ultimatum given to reconvene the tripartite negotiation for new minimum wage for workers’ which was adjourned sine die. The reports of the negotiation committee was expected to be concluded at the end of September but the meeting was adjourned indefinitely because of inability to arrive at a definite figure of minimum wage, but Labour faulted the adjournment and issued a 14- day ultimatum for negotiation to continue of face industrial action. Reading the communique of the NEC meeting, NLC president, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said that the report of the Labour committee to the negotiation table was very clear that the decision to adjourn indefinitely was not a collective one and therefore resolved to insist on the ultimatum. “We received the report from the Congress committee that participated in the negotiation and the Union was impressed because they defended the interest of workers at the negotiation table, that was why the Union was worried over the adjournment Sine dine , which was against ILO Convention. “We therefore applauded and approve the 14- day ultimatum and the reconvene of the tripartite meeting to recommend the minimum wage. “NEC has therefore mandated the National Action Council to take all necessary steps immediately including declaration of industrial action,” he said. Other issues deliberated upon was the refusal of governments at various levels to observe and implement agreement to foster industrial harmony and called on affected organs not to test the will of the Union. On the forthcoming 2019 general elections, NEC in session which chided the former Ondo state Governor, Olusegun Mimiko over the subtle moves to take over the party, warned him to desist. Wabba who displayed the Labour Party Certificate of registration with Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), applauded the first national president of Labour Party, Dan Iwuanyanwu for returning the certificate to the Congress. To this end, NEC-in-session urged all workers to go out and exercise their civic rights by contesting for any elective positions and cast their votes during elections to elect candidates that will defend their interest an fight for welfare improvement. The NLC tasked INEC to improve on the 2015 elections and deliver a free and fair elections, while urging security agencies not compromise in ensuring that the election was free of intimidation and threat to life.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 