The reconciliatory meeting initiated by Federal Government to avert the seven warning strike declared by the organised labour on Wednesday was deadlock. According to the directive issued by the labour centres, oil workers are to shut down terminals, public and private institutions, offices, banks, schools, public and private business premises as from Wednesday midnight, 26th September, 2018, in compliance with National Executive Committee (NEC) resolution, until further directive. At the meeting, Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment who convene the meeting in Abuja, disclosed that the Tripartite Committee on the new National Minimum Wage will reconvene and conclude the negotiation, on Thursday, 4th October 2018. Ngige, who gave the assurance while briefing at the end of a closed meeting with the leadership of the labour centres: Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC), reiterated President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration’s towards implementing the new minimum wage. “One of the ways that we going to show it is by implementing the new national minimum wage and this we need to fix a base for the lowest paid worker in Nigeria. “We are resuming next week, precisely on Thursday, October 4 and the meeting may split over to October 5, as we normally use two days for the meeting. “So, we are reconvening the meeting on the October 4, and all the process have being put in place,” he assured. The Minister argued that the country does not need to have any strike in the country, explained that the labour leaders have been informed of the new date and are expected to communicate to their members. “Part of our consultation, means that the Economic Management Team which is managing the entire economy of the country would have something to work on. “Already they are working on it and the National Salaries and Wages Commission and it is expected that before that meeting on October 4. They would have been through with the work. “So everything is subject to negotiation, so on Thursday October 4, we are going back to the negotiating table,” he said. Ngige who denied knowledge of the 14-day ultimatum issued to the Federal Government issued by the organized labour, however assured that the tripartite committee would wrap-up in October and all other processes as it concern the new national minimum wage for workers in the country. In his remarks, Ayuba Wabba, NLC President observed that the seven-day warning strike continues until further directives. “We had a meeting where the Minister of Labour tried to update us. Since the time we issued this notice, there has been no consultation or meeting. “This is the first meeting and he tried to update us on what they are trying to do. So the briefing needs to be communicated to our membership. “Our demand is that the Tripartite Negotiating Council should be called back to conclude its assignment. “We are taking back the discussion we had with him, especially the update on what they are doing which before now, we are not aware because there was no consultation,” he said. On his part, Achese Igwe, ULC Deputy President said the meeting was an interactive meeting with members of Tripartite Committee. Igwe said that the meeting called by the Minister was to brief the organised labour on the update of the Federal Government activities as it concern the new national minimum wage. “I want to say that our demand still stands until government comply,” he added. Speaking earlier at a press briefing held at the NLC headquarters, Wabba explained that the warning strike was aimed at compelling “government to reconvene the meeting of the committee in order to bring it to a logical conclusion. “In compliance with this mandate, all workers in the public and private sectors at all levels across the country have been directed to join the strike. “Industrial unions, state councils, all workers organisation and our civil society allies have been directed to step up mobilisation of their members,” he said. He also said that public and private institutions, offices, banks, schools, public and private business premises including filling stations are to remain shut till further notice. Wabba said that all those who mean well for the country and want to see to the success of the action should cooperate with labour, saying that the action would remain in force until further directive are given. The NLC president noted that the justification for the new national minimum wage cannot be over argued. “We do believe that the reasons governors find it difficult to pay the national minimum wage are lack of political will, high level of corruption, excessive cost of governance, white elephants projects and among others. “In any case, we are commending the governors that have indicated their readiness to pay the new national minimum wage and we advise those who are not prepared to pay to go back to their state and tell the workers in their state that they would not pay. “We, therefore, find it necessary to caution against any attempt by government at any level to blackmail workers or/and their unions because we have been patient, considerate and patriotic. “Indeed government had to commend workers and their union for waiting patiently for two years before commencing negotiations for a new National Minimum wage. We advise that our disposition should not be taken for granted,” he said.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 