Legal phobia, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) has expressed concern over the unwillingness of government at all levels to provide and share information with the public regarding it’s policies, programmes and projects.
The chief executive officer of the organisation, Ibrahim Yeku, who spoke at a conference in Abuja said the government is always skeptical about providing information that will enable the public analyse its performance as well as the impact of its project on the people.
Ibrahim stressed further that Nigeria cannot achieve the sustainable development it’s clamouring for without accountability and transparency in governance.
“Nigerians Need to see and access what government is doing, they need to see how government has fared and access the impact of its polices, programmes and projects on their lives.
He therefore called on government to be more corporative and transparent in its activities if nigeria must develop.
“If government is proud if it’s activities, then why don’t they share information. The government is usually not responsive or very slow in providing information.
“There is a need to build a government data base which will be a useful tool for project formulation because you can’t have proper planning without data, it will also be a tool for decision making and even for the electorates to make informed decision it becomes a tool.  Further,the CEO identified the lack of continuity in governance as a key issue that has slowed down development in Nigeria.  According to him, the failure of government to continue on the projects of predecessors has resulted to more abandoned, unfinished projects and ultimately waste in public funds.  “For example the social intervention programme by the past and current, iz there any synergy, does it amount to continuity, continuity is an issue in governance between , because don’t know what project has been abandoned or done.  He added that government has failed to prioritize it’s projects as most of its projects, programmes and policies do not meet the immidiate development needs of the citizens.  To this end the CEO informed that the Government index report and the Impact accessment report will bridge the information gap between government and the governed to enhance transparency.  “Governance Index Report is compilation of all people-based projects, programmes and policies of the 36 state Governors of Nigeria. It documents impactful initiatives in education, health, infrastructural development, as well as other forms of economic empowerment that significantly result in poverty reduction among the Nigerian people.  “It will provide a platform for people to see and asses what government is doing”. “The impact assessment report is mainly an evaluation of the programme, policies and projects, the 3Ps of government.”   “It’s also a platform for public performance appraisal, it’s fact based, figure based so the masses can take an informed decision about govt.   “The database collection of the programmes and development initiatives of state governments also serves as the first non-governmental compilation of such in the country” he explained.   Ibrahim also explained the the government index report is not limited to the literate as it’s designed to include majorly the rural poor . 