Start-ups are bridging the yawning gap in the Nigerian education system, making money from it. Godwin Benson, a first-class graduate of Systems Engineering from the University of Lagos, founded Tuteria to help Nigerian students find teachers near them. Tuteria manually assesses teachers and also interviews them to ensure they are suitable for the subjects or courses they claim to teach. Tuteria does not just connect teachers to students for traditional courses or subjects, but also for areas such as beauty and lifestyle, cooking, music and instruments, among others. Prepclass provides home tutors to Lagos residents, offering test-taking strategies and targeted examination practice for students. In a city of over 20 million people, where most parents are busy from morning till evening, Prepclass is filling up the gap of providing tutors to pupils and students at their convenient time. “At Prepclass, we have access to more than 1000 tutors in different specialities and locations across Lagos alone. This makes it possible for us to match your ward with the very best of the best tutors without any stress to you. We try to work with your budget and make the entire process as stress free and flexible as possible,” the firm says on its website. There is also Tutor, launched in 2014, with a view to providing tools for engaging and tutoring learners in Nigeria. Through the platform, teachers and trainers can sell their courses at a fee, to whoever is interested. The platform tutors students on English and French languages, public speaking, as well as on entrepreneurship courses such as bead making, cooking and mobile app development, among others. At the launch of the platform in 2014, Peter Ogedengbe, co-founder of Tutor.NG, said the platform would solve the problem of learning beyond the classrooms and create employment for smart and versatile graduates. More so, EduRecords is one of the platforms changing the way the business of education is done. It was founded to track the performance of students and teachers. EduRecords keeps records of students and teachers against loss, damage or alteration; monitors children or school affairs from any part of the world, and provides performance analysis on children. The platform checks continuous decline in students’ performances as well as decline in enrolment rates, thus enabling the parents to learn the performances of their children. Launched in September 2016, the platform has Ajayi Lawrence as its chairman and Olatunde Ogunlade as the managing director. The managing director Ogunlade believes that with a population of about 200 million people in Nigeria, EduRecords is sure of transforming the lives of the people within the age bracket the firm covers.  ODINAKA ANUDU 