Andela, a company that builds high-performing engineering teams by investing in Africa’s most talented software developers, has appointed Omowale David-Ashiru as its Nigeria Country Director. As Country Director, Omowale will be responsible for leading Andela Nigeria, a rapidly growing team of 500+ people, and ensuring that the organization continues to advance its objectives of developing Africa’s future technology leaders. Before joining Andela, Omowale’s professional experience spanned almost two decades in management consulting and entrepreneurship. During her eleven years at Accenture, she grew to become a seasoned Management Consultant and Certified Project Manager. Omowale then transitioned into entrepreneurship, launching a fashion retail company, which she managed for eight years. Her experience managing complex projects for global technology and financial services companies, combined with her entrepreneurial mindset, makes Omowale the right leader for Andela Nigeria. “Everything I’ve done before now feels like a preparation for this role,” says Omowale, “and I’m excited to join this wonderful team of highly motivated individuals who are investing their skills and effort into advancing opportunity and potential in Nigeria and the continent at large.” Seni Sulyman, Andela’s Vice President of Global Operations and previous Country Director, Nigeria, shared his excitement about Nigeria’s new Country Director: “Omowale has the right mix of relevant experiences in leadership, management and entrepreneurship to lead the next phase of Andela Nigeria’s growth,” he said, “and I’m particularly excited because she shares the same values and aspirations as Andelans.” He continued, “Andela Nigeria, our first office in Africa, is rapidly growing, and I have complete confidence in Omowale’s ability to lead the team as we continue to scale.” Omowale obtained a First Class B.Sc. in Economics from the University of Ibadan. In her own words, she has a deep passion for people, is an avid reader and loves adventure. Omowale joined Andela on September 3rd, 2018.   