Get inspired. The first thing you want to do, even before you head to your stylist for your big chop is to get inspired. Take some time to create a Pinterest board of women with short kinky haircuts. Scroll Instagram hashtags and take a look at how other women style their short natural hair styles. You want to start getting an idea about how versatile natural hair can be, even right after a big chop. Get a cut that compliments you. We cannot stress this point enough. When it comes to getting your big chop, our face shape, your hair texture, and your personal preferences all play a role in the kind of chop will look best on you. Typically a stylist will either go for the standard round cut or sometimes you may want to just cut it all down to your natural texture and go from there. Be patient. By the time you take that big step to cut your hair, you’ll probably be ready to jump right into styling. But, it can take some time to get your natural hair to a point where you can achieve styles like a wash and go with ease. Wash and go’s are a natural woman’s go to hairstyle, but they work best when the hair is in its best condition. This means properly hydrated. Moisture is essential both in the months before your big chop and immediately after. Without moisture and hydration, your hair journey both with short and long natural hair will be difficult. Create a good natural hair routine. While you may have had a standard hair routine before your big chop, with your short natural hair, habits like cleansing and conditioning with ultra-hydrating products can be the difference between hair that flourishes and hair that’s brittle and dry. Use the Right Products. No short natural hair routine is complete without a good product line up. Quality products are essential at any stage in your natural hair journey, but especially in the beginning. You want to use products that help restore hydration to your hair, retain moisture, combat frizz, and enhance curl definition. Have fun. So we know we talk a lot about how to care, manage, and style your hair, but we don’t often talk about the feelings and emotions involved with such a major change. In the early days of your short natural hair, you may find yourself dealing with trying to feel good about your hair, your styles, and how society will view you. Remember, even before natural hair became so popular, women like Halle Berry were showing us that short hair is feminine and fierce.  Urbanbella 