Saliu Mustapha, governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State on Monday affirmed his determination to offer inclusive governance to collectively fix Kwara and make it one of the leading lights in Nigeria, boasting that he will succeed incumbent Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed. Mustapha, who made this known when he formally declared his intention to run for governorship seat in Kwara State in the forthcoming general election, promised that his government would ensure that the tax payers’ money is judiciously utilised and would avoid tax duplication as currently experienced. According to him, “It is still baffling that the lofty vision of the founding fathers of our darling State of Harmony is yet to be achieved in spite of resources available in quantum.” Mustapha said: “It is against this background that we have critically and holistically assessed our situation with the belief that all hope is not lost, hence the need to let us collectively fix Kwara come 2019. “Having identified our challenges, we have articulated how we intend to frontally offer solutions in the areas of Education, skill acquisition/entrepreneurship, Health from basic to tertiary level, Infrastructure deficit, civil servants welfarism, youth development, agricultural empowerment which we tagged ‘The 6-point agenda'”. Mustapha, a former deputy National Chairman of Congress for Progressives Change ( CPC ), pointed out that he remains in APC because he believed in political ideology of President Muhammadu Buhari. “We in APC, we want better and productive leadership. We believe in leadership by example of President Muhammadu Buhari. I have always shared his ideological conviction. If given the opportunity, we will deliver our promises. “We have a strategic plan; short term, mid-term and long term on how to address some of the issues identified. The man power is there. It is not everybody that must have a white collar job. We are appealing to people that all hands should be on deck to achieve the best for ourselves. “As I can not do it alone, we are appealing to the good people of Kwara to give us the necessary support to serve and fix Kwara. Because, I strongly believe that, together we can fix Kwara.”  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin 