Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode has reportedly cautioned his close supporters and aides to steer clear the power tussle over his second term ambition, as he was not ready to fight the leadership of his political party. According to a source close to the Government House at Alausa, the embattled governor upon return from Abuja last week told his aides he would respect the position of the All Progressives Congress (APC) if the leadership insisted he dropped his second term bid. He was said to have also cautioned his supporters against joining issues with the leaders of the party, as he would remain ever grateful to Bola Tinubu, national leader of the APC and former governor of Lagos, who brought him (Ambode) into politics and gave him the opportunity to serve as the governor of Lagos. Meanwhile, a former member principal officer of the Lagos State House of Assembly, who lost re-election in the 2015 election, has said that Ambode’s case has been closed, as he (Ambode) has been told in clear terms he would not return to Alausa as governor after May 29, 2019. The former House member said the governor has offended too many people, and many of whom have agreed to his exit from the State House. This is as Babajide Sanwoolu, leading governorship aspirant on the platform of Lagos State chapter of APC on Sunday at a well attended ceremony rolled out his blue-print if finally elected next governor of the state, promising to immediately restore fully the glory of Lagos and the poor environment which he said had become the source of serious anxiety to Lagosians. Party stalwarts at the event, which held at City Hall on Lagos Island include James Odunmbaku (Baaba Eto), Sunny Ajose, former head of service and vice-chairman, Lagos West APC; Abdulai Enilolobo, Gbenga Ashafa, Kaoli Olusanya, Demola Seriki and Tola Kasali. Others are James Faleke, Rotimi Agunsoye, Lola Essen, chairman, conference 57; Wahab Alawiye, former Lagos Island local government chairman, and former member, Lagos Assembly; Tayo Ayinde, DG, campaign organisation for Sanwo-Olu, who was also chief detail to former governor, Tinubu, among others. Sanwoolu, who will be contesting the APC direct primary slated for the end of September with the incumbent, who is also his party member, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, vowed also to relieve residents of Lagos of the persistent gridlocks and hiccups that had made life brutish and nasty for them all. This was just as the governorship aspirant, a three-time commissioner in the state paid glowing tributes to past and present leaders in Lagos, including Herbert Macaulay, Akintoye Ajasa, Adeniyi Jones, Mobolaji Johnson and Lateef Jakande, noting that Lagos had been blessed since inception with innovators and visionaries, describing Bola Tinubu, as a celebrated tactician. “If elected as the next governor of Lagos State, I shall immediately embark on full restoration of the glory of the state. And make the people the cornerstone of government. “I will restore the environment that has become the source of serious anxiety to Lagosians. I will relieve residents of Lagos State of the persistent gridlocks and hiccups that has made life brutish and nasty for all of us,” Sanwo-Olu said, adding that his government focal point shall be to provide the greatest good for the greatest number of the people of Lagos State. According to the APC chieftain, who promised to be a “true party man in the real definition by the words and in running an inclusive government,” the preparation of visionary programmes like the Lagos State Economic and Development Strategy, initiated by Tinubu linking the state to the path of development which comprises four parts for the next 25 years would serve as a guiding roadmap to bringing about the good for greater number of people in the state. “This vision put together by eminent Lagosians prepared our state ahead for the growing challenges. The most concrete manifestation of Asiwaju’s leadership and love for the great people of our state; I feel privileged to be part of that process that made it happen, I assure you that it shall continue to be the road map when I become the next civilian governor of the state.  JOSHUA BASSEY 