When on Tuesday, David Mark, a former Senate president, went to the Wadata House of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) secretariat in Abuja to obtain the expression of interest and nomination forms for the post of president in the party’s October 5 and 6 primaries, many Nigerians were surprised because they did not see it coming. Months ago, the name of Mark was mentioned in passing as one of those seeking the PDP ticket for the presidency in 2019. But not many people committed it to heart, because nothing had been heard from him concerning that until the form purchase Tuesday. While a number of others contending for the ticket have been on the road, moving from one state to the other consulting party stakeholders, Mark decided to keep his card to his chest. One of his aides told BusinessDay that a “Mr. David Mark does not need any introduction in Nigeria.” The aide who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: “Unlike those ‘who go and come’ in PDP, Senator Mark has remained ‘original/authentic PDP’. So, if the returnees are moving about begging party members to forgive their habitual unfaithfulness; or if those who know they do not have what it takes to win the ticket are basing their chances on sentiment, Mark doesn’t have such baggage that can limit him. But that’s by the way. The senator is reaching out to people; you know you can’t embark on this journey without carrying people along. No matter the method the PDP may wish to adopt- direct, indirect or consensus- it is people that will decide the faith of the aspirants. To that end, he cannot take stakeholders for granted.”  Economic policies on his mind His wealth of experience acquired over a long period of years, on different beats, has also equipped him to know how to tackle the myriads of nation’s problems. He alluded to this when he said that “Irrespective of our political persuasions, it is incontrovertible that restructuring of the nation is an idea whose time has come.” “I believe it will further strengthen our bond of brotherhood and unity more than ever before, because everyone would have a sense of belonging and live in harmony in any part of Nigeria without any fear of molestation and intimidation,” he further said. According to him, his blueprint tagged ‘730’ will address critical areas of Nigeria’s national life. He specifically promised to tackle poverty, unemployment and neglect which he said had forced some of Nigeria’s youths to undertake the very risky route of going through the Sahara Desert and the Mediterranean Sea in their quest for greener pastures in Europe. The aspirant also explained that the 730 economic model, was a strategy that would turn the economy around within two years. “We will concentrate on developing our infrastructure, delivering on affordable housing, roads, rails and power. We will focus on education and create a pool of highly trained citizens with excellent IT skills who will be employable as well as create jobs.” Mark, the longest serving senator since the return of the country to civil rule in 1999, also said: “We will support Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) as a matter of priority by providing interest free cooperative loans to produce optimally with appropriate technology which will be the main driver of the economy with attendant huge employment opportunities.”  Analyst’s view of Mark’s move Since early 70’s David Mark has been a beneficiary of political posts in the country. He had a meteoric rise in the military, retiring as Brigadier-General. For many years, he has moved from one plum position or the other in the nation’s chequered political space. As a very prominent indigene of the state, critics say that nothing much is being heard from him in the gale of massacres that had been visited on fellow indigenes of the state by the alleged Fulani herdsmen. Observers believe that with his stature in the country, Mark should have stamped his feet down and demanded from the government a more proactive action to end the unprovoked carnage in his state. It is also doubtful if Mark’s long stay in the Senate has positively impacted many people in his senatorial district. He may have touched a few people’s lives- those who have direct access to him- but information about meaningful ventures established by him that have reduced the unemployment tally in his state is not in the public domain. If his reason for seeking the presidency is actually to create jobs and enhance the quality of life of the citizens, one would expect him to have shown example with the lives he had positively affected using the huge resources at his disposal. Mark does not need to be the president of Nigeria to play his role- to give back to the society that has been very kind to him. Was the motivation to join the fray well-thought out or something that came up just because he has seen other people going to buy forms? Someone alleged that it was because he had seen Bukola Saraki purchase his own form, that must have prompted him to do so. Or could it be that he is now tired of going back to the Senate and decided to create an alibi to enable him exit without many questions? Does Mark have the needed wide acceptance across the country to sell his aspiration? Although he was a two-term Senate president, it is doubtful if he is popular across the country, particularly among the voting populace. Some critics say that his mindset and perception of the poor which warranted him to say, when he was the Communication minister, that phones were not for the poor, may not have changed. Again, going by the sad experience of the country in the hands of military men-turned politicians, it is doubtful if a leopard can truly change its spots.  His profile Mark, April 1948, is a retired Army Brigadier General and politician. He was president of the Senate from 2007 to 2015 and is the senator for the Benue South. He is a member of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Prior to his senatorial career, Mark was the military governor of Niger State from 1984 to 1986 and a Minister of Communication. Early life and education Mark was born in Zungeru Niger State in April 1948. He attended St. Francis Catholic Practicing School before attending the Nigerian Military School. After that he attended the Nigerian Defence Academy. He was commissioned as a 2nd Lieutenant in 1970 and became a Captain in 1971. He was Commandant of Static Communications in 1974, then later held a political post as Chairman Abandoned Properties Implementation Committee in the Eastern Region in 1976. Mark headed the Communications Ministry and its two major parastatals: Nigerian Communications Limited (NITEL) and Nigerian Postal Agency (NIPOST). As Minister of Communications, Mark was sometimes known for his blunt talk; during a two-day walking tour of facilities in Akure in 1989, some union workers complained that some of its members had not been promoted since 1978. Mark’s response was that those who have not been promoted may have to be retired, meaning that unproductive workers will have to be let go. He also espoused the opinion of death penalty for telecom cable thieves, as well as a policy of dismantling under-utilised telecom facilities citing political considerations for giving allocations to towns with limited use of phone networks. He was also said to have bragged that phones were not meant for the poor. Mark was elected to his position as President of the Senate of Nigeria on June 6, 2007. He ran for re-election to the Senate in April 2011 and was elected for a fourth term. David Mark noted that the polls pointed to his decisive victory, and called for his opponents to work together to improve Nigeria. When leading the review of the Nigerian Constitution, Mark reportedly urged his colleagues to set aside their personal interests and focus on the interests of the Nigerian people. After the UK criticised Nigeria’s Prohibition of Same-Sex Marriage bill, threatening to pull their foreign aid, Mark responded that they “should keep [their] aid.” Mark called Nigeria’s National Football Federation the “centre of corruption in the country,” suggesting that they may need to temporarily disband to allow for reconstruction. 