The Nigerian rising table tennis star has won virtually all the titles in Africa with the exception of the All African Games. A few weeks ago, Aruna won the ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open in Lagos.. In the last few years, the Oyo State born superstar has been making stable progress as a globally renowned table tennis player. For instance, at both the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics, he competed for Nigeria in the men’s singles table tennis event and got to the quarter-finals stage on both occasions. He was also part of the Nigerian team that won bronze at the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Similarly, in the 2017 ITTF World Challenge Bulgaria Open, he advanced to the semi-finals where he was defeated in a highly entertaining and captivating match by eventual winner Dimitriji Ovtcharov.  A major feature of Aruna’s winning recipe is his forehand style which has proved quite irresistible. A quiet but very hardworking sportsman, Aruna has been variously described as a quintessential professional who gives his all to his chosen profession. While others brag around town showing off their feats for all to see, Aruna is quite modest and always eager to cover new grounds. For instance, rather than embarking on a prolonged party disposition to commemorate his recent conquest at Mauritania, Aruna simply said that the victory is now in the past and that his focus is now on winning the elusive gold at the next edition of the All African Games. That, indeed, is the hallmark of great athletes. Today, Aruna is the highest ranked African tennis player in the world. He is the first Nigerian and second ever African tennis player to make ITTFtop18 rating. Till date, his biggest career highlight was winning the Polish Open in 2017, thus making him the first African to win an ITTF competition outside of the continent. With the current giant strides of Aruna in table tennis, it has now become imperatives for all key stakeholders in the sports sector to come up with the needed initiatives that could further promote sports development in the country. Today, sport has become a business concern that contributes to gross earnings of many countries. Sadly, things aren’t really in the right perspective with sports in Nigeria. A visit to the various stadia across the country would surely reveal the pathetic situations of athletes preparing to represent us in major sporting events as they train in most awful conditions, sometimes depending on support from family members, friends among others. Indeed, it is always difficult to secure the needed fund for these athletes to attend major tourneys. The implication of neglecting sports is far too grievous. We inadvertently shut the door against the talents of thousands of Nigerians who would have used same as escape route from poverty. Globally, sports have become a huge industry through which lots of youths have gotten fame and fortune. Therefore, developing and investing more in sports is one sure way of empowering the youths and other professionals (such as doctors, psychologists, physiotherapists, athlete managers etc) in the various sporting fields to become productively engaged. In this time of youth restiveness and national insecurity, encouraging youths to take to sports would surely be of immense benefits to the country. Therefore, if we are to offer the teeming youth in the country an opportunity to fulfill their God given potentials, we must change our attitude towards sports. There are so many less expensive sports that every youth in this country could easily take up and excel in. Governments at various levels have to evolve policies and strategies that would support the development of such sports. It is a shame that after the exit of the likes of Nduka Odizor and David Imonite, the game of lawn tennis has virtually died in the country. If Richard Williams, the father of celebrated American lawn tennis stars, Serena and Venus Williams, could singlehandedly turn the duo into world beaters, with the right policy and programs, there is no reason why we should not be able to train and raise potential world champions in boxing, lawn tennis, wrestling, table tennis and others in the not too far future. The private sector needs to take a more active role in the project to restore the nation’s lost glory in sports. All over the world, the initiatives and funds that drive sports come from the private sector. With the needed private sector drive, moribund school sports competitions across the country could be resuscitated. This is the only way we could build on the successes of the likes of Aruna Quadri. Tayo Ogunbiyi Ogunbiyi is of the Features Unit , Ministry of Information & Strategy , Alausa-Ikeja 