The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Uche Secondus has declared that the 2019 general election is under serious threat because the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Federal Government are not disposed to conduct free and fair poll. Speaking when he received officials of the European Union who called at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday led by Ambassador Beatrice Markussion, deputy director of Africa Division, European External Action services, Head of EU delegation, Secondus said that available intelligence to the party shows that the government and the electoral commission are all plotting to rig the election. He expressed disappointment at the level of preparation of the ruling government and the electoral commission. His words: “Our major concern is that INEC and security agencies are working hand in hand to rig the election for the APC. “What they did in EKiti State in July and they are still preparing to repeat it in Osun on September 22, is enough evidence that they are not ready to conduct free, fair and credible elections. “The Chairman of INEC Prof Mahmud Yakaubu should go beyond verbal promises and put into action credible and practical processes for election”. Secondus said that the APC is not preparing for election because they know they have nothing to offer the electorates having divided the country and dragged the economy almost to a comatose state. “This government has divided the country, borrowed over N11 trillion yet hunger is revaging our people as the economy slides. “Records shows that more Nigerians have been killed in the last three years than during the civil war yet the government remains insensitive to the situation”. The National Chairman explained to his visitors the internal democracy processes in place by the party to ensure free and fair process in line with the rebranding spirit of the party. On his part, the EU leader commended the party for providing robust opposition which is necessary for democracy to strive. She noted that in few months away, the focus of the global community would be on Nigeria to see how it copes with her election processes. She said that EU and indeed all lovers of democracy are interested in Nigeria elections. Other members of the delegation include Ambassador In Ketil Karsen, Head of EU delegation to Nigeria, deputy head Richard Young.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 