There are indications that the Nigerian Labour Congress will any time from now call off the warning strike embarked upon from midnight on Wednesday, following the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday. The Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari met leaders of the striking workers, represented by major stakeholders in the Labour cycle including the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, President of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association and the Trade Union Congress TUC. BusinessDay gathered from the Presidential Villa Thursday that federal government begged Labour to return to the negotiation table. It was revealed that government is not happy that the negotiation stalled which led to the current warning strike Chief of Staff to the President, while speaking at the end of the meeting, said “ government had extensive discussions with the Labour leaders to determine how we got here”
“The purpose is to know why we got to this stage” he said. The intervention is coming on the heels of reports that the strike embarked by the organized Labour may affect the payment of September salaries, as it came too close to the month. The Accountant General of the Federation, AGF, had on Thursday called on the organized Labour to suspend the strike to allow government pay the salaries of the workers. President of the NLC, while speaking on behalf of the Labour leaders, who met the Chief of Staff to the President pledged to take the outcome of their interactions with the government back to their colleagues for prompt consideration, adding that “ the outcome of our deliberations will determine our next line of action” Wabba stated that the discussions centered on the “return of Labour to the negotiations table” disclosed that “ issues of figures were not discussed” “ We have not reached that stage yet. As you know, it was at that point that negotiation stalled. What we are doing now is how to continue with the negotiations” “We have had some useful discussion with the government and the Chief of Staff has also given us government position. This is what we are going to Communicate with our members” “All the discussion will be communicated with our members. We are here also as you are aware as representatives of our members. So, we cannot tell you when or whether the strike will be called off. Our members will take the decision” Asked how soon the organized Labour will be holding the meeting he said “ As soon as possible” Also speaking after the meeting, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said “ government summoned the meeting to get the Labour Leaders to the negotiation table”  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 