In an era of economic uncertainty, trade wars and escalating levels of extreme poverty, financial literacy amongst millennials is needed now more than ever. Various economic crashes around the world has necessitated the urgent need to get more young Africans to be financially literate and to have information on how to start, grow and build their businesses and personal brands and careers. With the growing curiosity for financial information amongst African millennial, the Bridge has become rapidly become  Africa’s number 1 financial literacy show! Season 1 which experienced monumental success in 2017 was previously powered by the Central Bank of Nigeria. In 2018, Season 2 of the Bridge premieres Thursday, September 13th, 2018, just in time to shake up the fourth quarter of 2018! Season 2 which is proudly brought to you by BusinessDay and powered by FCMB, interviews celebrities and millennial business owners to find out the strategies and the financial decision behind their successful brands, businesses, and careers. This season gives unprecedented access to Nigeria’s most celebrated celebrities as they discuss their personal highlights, wins, mistakes, regrets when it comes to their personal and business lives. Season 2 includes financial revelations and advice from Falz The Bahd Guy, Tokini Peterside, JJ Omojuwa founder of Alpha Reach, Mai Atafo and Bukky Karibi Whyte plus many more. The Bridge season 2, brings financial literacy to the average African millennial in an easy, relatable and digestible way. Season 2 of the Bridge premieres Thursday, September 13th just in time to keep you on top of your financial goals as we begin to countdown to 2019! The honesty and candid answers will surprise you this season! Season 2 of the Bridge is brought to you by BusinessDay and powered by FCMB and is exclusively screening on Silverbird and BusinessDay TV. The Bridge season 2 is Executive produced by Mr. Frank Aigobun publisher of Businessday, produced by Lehlé Baldé.
Technical services provided by Utopia Media.   