National Chairman of the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA), Peter Ameh frowns at the delay in the passage of the budget of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the delay of assent to the Electoral Act amendment Bill by the President, less than six months to election even as he urges for urgent action by stakeholders to resolve the matter. In this interview with Innocent Odoh, the newly elected chairman of Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) also shares his vision for the council and preparedness of is party the PPA for the 2019 elections. Excerpts:  We want to know the kind of transformation you wish to bring in IPAC? People have misunderstood what IPAC stands for. The real essence for which IPAC was established is for us to be able to sit down together as political parties, share opinion on how to moderate the political temperature and look at ways to ensure successful conduct of elections in Nigeria and then look at the shortcomings that we had experienced in past elections in Nigeria and how to address them. You will agree with me that the 1999, 2003, 2007, and 2011 elections are not the same as what we have been seeing now. There is a radical shift in the way we see elections now because then there was ballot box snatching, ballot box stuffing and a lot of other things. We are slow but our election is improving by the day. So that is the function of IPAC to work at interparty level to be able to discus with parties to ensure that people coming to office are determined by the actions of the general populace by their will in elections. IPAC is also to ensure that our elections are violent –free, credible, free and fair. For us one of our cardinal objectives is to partner with other stakeholders, the media, donor agencies, INEC and all political parties to push our democracy forward. The budget of INEC is still generating some controversy and even the Bill to amend the Electoral Act passed by the National Assembly the president has refused assent to the bill. What is your reaction to this? It is very painful that at this time we are still talking about INEC budget about five month to the election and it is very painful that at this time we are still talking about Electoral Act. At first it was returned by the President saying that there are some things that he did not like such as the sequence of election and the National Assembly took that out. So I am wondering why the legal advisers to the President and the AGF did not see that there was the need to also look at what was there. But I believe that the Presidency will be able to work with the National Assembly to see how they can address the issue within the shortest possible time. We should be able to look this issue without partisanship because the law stipulates that we should have Electoral Act six months to election but right now we are already shot of that. There is also a problem that INEC by now does not have a budget of about 84 billion naira in place because we don’t want to experience logistics problem. So I urge the executive, the legislature and the INEC to all sit on the table including the political parties to see how this matter can be resolved within this month so that there won’t be logistics, political and legal lacuna to the election. The issue of vote buying has become an ugly streak in the nation’s electoral process which is pervading everywhere. What is your reaction to this? This vote buying is very bad development in our electoral process because vote buying is inducement to the extent of making people vote against their conscience may be because of the poverty in the country. Because if not poverty, I do not see why anybody will give somebody N1,000 to vote against their conscience. So we must wake up as political parties, the Election Management body and civil society group. We must do what is called advocacy overdrive to be able to enlighten our people that when someone gives you money to come into office that person is planning to recoup his finances. In the IPAC we are going to call a general assembly meeting and sit down with all the members of the council and see how we can put our ideas together to make sure that this current style of inducing voters to vote against their conscience we find a very permanent solution to it. We cannot do it alone; we must also see how we can involve the police in charge of these duties. We must ensure that the people have the mandate to elect who they want and not be induced because of the poverty in the country. What is the level of preparedness of the PPA for the 2019 elections in terms of ideas and response to the issues of governance especially economy, security, corruption and other issues troubling Nigeria? Our politics is people -driven, our interest is to deliver good service. We have experienced a lot of things and people are coming to become aware that governance has become like a telemondo thing where people go to launch boreholes and all that. I can assure you that the PPA has been a party that has been winning election; we won election in 2007, 2011 and even in 2015. But what we have done is to try as much as possible to mobilise the people at the grassroots. We have decided that we will jointly produce a presidential candidate for the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) to which we belong. So for us in the PPA we are prepared for this election. Are you confident that this election will actually hold judging by the way the budget of INEC is being delayed and the imbroglio between the executive and the legislature with the President of the Senate Bukola Saraki being threatened with impeachment by members of the ruling party the APC and to some extent the Presidency? Since 1999 we don’t have interruption in election despite the struggle and I know that the President is a man of integrity he will ensure that there no interruption. For the one of Saraki, I hope the people moving against him also know what they are doing. If they want to remove Saraki, then they have to get the constitutionally required 2/3 majority of the members of the 109 Senators. But I don’t think this is feasible, so we watch as things unfold because politics is dynamic. At the end of the day people will cross sides, people will change their interests whether in favour of Saraki or against him, but as a grassroots politician I know Saraki will do everything possible to remain there. 