While neighbouring Ghana, with a population of 28 million is preparing her workforce for the challenges of the future with increased budgetary allocation to education, Nigeria with over 186 million people lags behind, as successive governments fail to lift the sector financially. Ghana’s budgetary allocation for education in 2018 is N740 billion, which is 13.76 percent of her N5,382,396,406,800 total budget, while Nigeria budgeted N605 billion, which is 7.03 percent of her N8,612,236,953,214 total budget. Nigeria’s education sector has not received as much attention as it should in over a decade. Budgetary allocation to the sector has consistently fallen short of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation’s (UNESCO) recommended 26 percent. Analysis of budgetary allocation for education over the last six years has not even hit 15 percent; a situation which educationists say is reflective of how much importance successive government’s accord education. In the 2017 fiscal year, budgetary allocation for education was N550 billion, representing 7.4 percent of the N7.444 trillion total budget, while in the 2018 appropriation bill of about N8.612 trillion, only N605.8 billion was proposed for capital projects in the education sector representing 7 percent. Those who know in the education sector maintain that Nigeria’s low allocation to her education system, no doubt is costing the nation huge losses by way of poor infrastructure, low motivation for teachers across all levels and by extension, foreign exchange, as parents in search of quality education take their children to school in Ghana. They observe that Ghana makes about $1bn annually from educational tourists from Nigeria, adding that the Federal Government cannot get much from a venture that they have not invested in. According to them, Ghana has cashed in on the neglect of Nigeria’s education system by encouraging the influx of Nigerian students and earning foreign exchange from them. The importance of the education sector in our national development aspirations cannot be over stressed. The Nigerian budget for education is less than 10% while in Ghana it is approximately 14% says Aderemi Aaron-Anthony Atayero, Vice-Chancellor, Covenant University, Otta Ogun State. Analysts observe that the constant below par budgetary allocation to education has several notable downsides at all levels. They say that basic education is still characterised by low net enrolment, as about 8.5 million children are out of school. School infrastructure has not caught up with increasing enrolment. According to them, the secondary level is not spared the decay. There are infrastructural challenges, including inadequacies in power and water supply. Over 65% of schools have no public power supply.  ICT infrastructure is also poor at the basic education level. Inadequacies of classroom, laboratory and workshop facilities pervade the system. At all levels, teachers are inadequate in number and quality. Florence Obi, former Deputy Vice Chancellor, University of Calabar, warned that any country that neglects knowledge resulting from educational activities sets itself back by a decade, noting that “any nation that does not pay attention to the educational needs of its population is likely to face difficult times in the future.” She further pointed out that higher education in Nigeria has been experiencing loss of facilities, deterioration of equipment and plants, and uncompleted projects, as a result of financial crisis facing the system. For his part, Peter Okebukola, former executive secretary of the Nigerian Universities Commission (NUC), said he expects the Muhammadu Buhari administration to improve funding across all levels of education. He observes that such a move would increase capital development to aid teaching and learning, adding that the Nigerian education system is not up to the level it should be. Aderemi Aaron-Anthony Atayero, says that the solutions to the socio-political and economic problems in Nigeria lie in quality and sustainable education. I boldly state that any investment in the education sector is an investment in the future of Nigeria. “Quality and sustainable education has the potential to create employment, improve wellness, and create a well-informed or politically-informed citizenry. Therefore, I want to appeal that government should declare a state of emergency in this sector and devise a developmental plan that will address and remedy the problem of access and quality within a specified period. There is need for massive infrastructural development in this sector”, he said. For Isaac Adeyemi, former vice Chancellor, Bells University of Science and Technology Otta, Ogun State, if the nation’s education system is to position itself on a platform of any relevance, the present administration must prioritise education through proper funding and policies that will enhance the sector across the board.  KELECHI EWUZIE 