Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, APC has vowed to sack any State Executive Committee, SEC of the party found biased in the conduct of the forthcoming primaries. Oshiomhole particularly stressed that SEC lacks power to adopt or endorse
aspirants and any state EXCO caught in such acts would not only be disbanded but will be prosecuted for breach of oath of office and allegiance to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He handed this warning Wednesday night during a meeting with the State Chairmen of the party at APC National Secretariat Abuja ahead of the party’s primary elections begging with the Presidency on Friday. The APC National Chairman said the Tuesday action taken against the Adamawa SEC who adopted a governorship aspirant will be replicated in any state, stressing that the National Working Committee is legally empowered to remove any state EXCO found wanting. Oshiomhole stressed that, the business of the state executives should not be confused with their personal preference, particularly in a state where more than one aspirants are contesting for positions. “If you do that and it is not going to be secret, we will, without any hesitation disband the entire executive. The NWC has the power without given reason to disband any executive which in its opinion is no longer fit and competent to represent the party in your respective states. “There is only one party known to law, and that is the APC. So, please, resist any temptation. We have seen embarrassment where people go on Television canvassing positions of their governor or declaring one person as the soul candidate, you don’t those powers, and if you do so, not only can you be dissolve, you can be prosecuted for breach of oath of office and oath of allegiance to the APC”, he affirmed. Oshiomhole also announced that the party’s membership register which is ready would be given to the chairmen for onward distribution to the wards and warned that they will be held responsible for any damage, manipulation and discrepancy in the register.  James Kwen, Abuja 