Young entrepreneurs and start-ups find themselves caught up in so many activities meant to help their businesses survive and thrive but reading is usually not one of them. Experts say it is important to read the classics in your field of endeavour, in order to understand how the masters in that field think and act. The classics contain the fundamentals. Fundamentals are insights created by people who had to figure out everything, these are fundamentals on which everything else read about today is built on. Technology may change, ideas evolve but fundamentals, the basics always remain the same. Some young entrepreneurs like to proclaim their negligence toward reading, or claim they can learn the same lessons from videos, podcasts, and even life experience. However, while all of those work too, reading has a unique quality you cannot get elsewhere. It forces your brain to work differently. Besides, some of the brightest minds in history did not record YouTube videos, they wrote books. To say you do not read is essentially to refuse learning some of the greatest lessons of all time. “I always tell entrepreneurs, if you want to learn and master a topic, read the classics, find and read the classics. Here’s the question I get all the time: “But why Ronald? Why waste time with a book that’s old and dated?” Ikenna Ronald Nzimora, business coach said on his Twitter handle @ronaldnzimora. “There’s a reason why when you want to learn a language, you start from learning the alphabets.” Once the alphabets are in place, the words are strung together and woven into sentences. Sentences give birth to paragraphs and onward the march continues. For a start, here are three business classics to read: This is one of those books you should read and then reread every year. Make it a habit because it is deemed one of the best business leadership books of all time for a reason. Stephen R. Covey gives actionable but extremely self-aware guidance to aspiring leaders who want to lead by example. The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People is meant for individuals who are looking to improve themselves from the inside out.  Tried and true, How to Win Friends and Influence People is one of the most popular business books of all time for a reason. With plenty of undertones of self-development, Dale Carnegie shows readers why handling business the right way is so imperative. Entrepreneurs everywhere say they want to do something different, that they want to change the world. Well, serial entrepreneur Peter Thiel has decided to tackle that topic head-on, and point out exactly what it takes to make something entirely unique and new. As he says, “The next Bill Gates will not build an operating system. The next Larry Page or Sergey Brin won’t make a search engine. Tomorrow’s champions will not win by competing ruthlessly in today’s marketplace. They will escape competition altogether, because their business will be unique.” 