The President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Paul Usoro, SAN, has announced the appointment of an ad-hoc committee, to monitor the Osun State Governorship election scheduled to hold on the 22nd day of September 2018. In a press release dated Monday September 10, 2018, the President disclosed the constitution of a “nine-man team’ made up members of the association from various states other than Osun, to monitor and report all situations regarding Osun State elections. The statement which was signed by President read, “Pursuant to the scheduling of the Gubernatorial Election for Osun State by the Independent National Electoral Commission (‘INEC”) for Saturday, 22 September 2018, the Nigerian Bar Association (“NBA”) has, in conformance to its traditional watchdog role, constituted a 9-person Team made up of the following members of the Association to, amongst others, monitor the Election.” The team chaired by Tawo E. Tawo, SAN is expected to report about the outcome of the election as representatives of the NBA. Members of this committee (team) are, Tawo E Tawo, SAN from Cross Rivers State, Chairman; Olalekan ThanniLag of Lagos State, Member, Abiye Tam-George of Rivers State, Member; Ato Bulus of Niger State, Member and Saliu Jimoh of Kwara State, Member. Others are, Abibat Delayo Oriekun of Oyo State, Member, Olanrewaju Obadina of Ogun State, Member; Mukosolu Okafor of Imo State, Member and Liman Salihu of Kogi State, Secretary. The team mandate includes, monitoring and reporting on the conformance of the electoral processes to all relevant and applicable laws and regulations as well as the standard of electoral freeness and fairness that was observed by all the relevant stakeholders during and in the course of the Election. The president in the release, stated that “The team’s assignment would be complete upon the submission of its Monitoring Report to the President of the NBA within two weeks of the announcement of the Election result by INEC or so soon thereafter as the President may direct. “In carrying out its assignment, the Team is mandated to liaise with INEC and other authorized and credible elections monitoring teams, including but not limited to international organizations and monitoring teams.” In closing, the president thanked the Chairman and Members of the committee, for accepting to serve the Association in this capacity and assure that we do not howsoever take their sacrifice for granted. 