Tonia Soyede,the director general of the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ACCI on Wednesday said that the 2018 edition of the Abuja International Trade Fair IATF targets to host host over one million visitors with about 1,500 exhibitors across all sectors of the economy. Tonia who gave the information at a pre-event conference on Wednesday in Abuja revealed further that 43 foreign exhibitors and 11 Embassies will be coming on their own diplomatic platform. Speaking at the 2018 edition which is themed:’Enhancing SMEs in Agribusiness through Innovative Technology’ said the upcoing fare seeks to strengthen business relationship between local and foreign investors formed in the 2017 edition and to increase investment and purchase of Nigerian made products. According to the director general,”Last year, we had 1350 exhibitors, we were able to capture a couple of countries who are interested in one or two things made in nigeria. Particularly agricultural produce and some level of vehicle assembly which we are still pursuing till this moment. “The expectation this year is to be able to further concretize on the relationship formed last year. We hope to bring to fruition the assembly of vehicles in Nigeria and also hope new relationship will be formed this year.” She said. She pointed out further that the chamber is looking at the opportunity of Vietnamese bringing in their material to process cashew nuts. “You’ll be shocked that Vietnam does not plant a tree of cashew but they are number 2 on the ladder of exporters of cashew which they got from Nigeria, The ACCI president is currently in Vietnam to agree with them to bring in their machineries for Nigeria to process the nuts and export them.” She explained further that this year’s edition will provide a platform for sharing of trade, investment and market opportunities/information and will hep buyers, sellers, investors and countries to foster business relationships According to her, exhibitors will have an ample opportunity to showcase and promote their brands to a captive audience of decision makers which will increase their market share. “More so, it will he an opportunity for manufacturers to interact with product end users, handke customer complaints and reward brand loyalists She also informed that the fair will be more exciting with the inclusion of children funfair village and daily musical show. “The fair certainly guarantees huge Return on Investment (ROI)” she assured. Shoyede however expressed with satisfaction that the annual trade fair has over the years experienced increased number of participants/visitors with over 3,000 exhibitors and close to 20 million visitors in twelve series of staging the fair. The trade fair is set to hold from 26th September to 7th October at the Abuja International Trade Convention Center Airport road Abuja.  HARRISON EDEH, ABUJA 