The 5-Aside football competition organised by Premier Cool, a brand of PZ Cussons, tagged ‘Turf Wars’, and concluded successfully on Saturday, September 1, 2018 at the Children International School, Lekki. The football tournament ended amidst fanfare after a very entertaining final match, in which Fast Five FC emerged victorious. Fast Five FC, PhotostudioNG FC, Hunters FC, Juniorates FC, Bomb Squad FC, Odd Twelve FC, Old Ladies FC, and Ballers FC, took to the pitch to battle it out. At the end of the semi-finals, Fast Five FC and PhotostudioNG progressed to the final, while Hunters FC and Juniorates FC faced off for third place. Fast Five FC emerged champions as they won 3-2 on penalties, completing an incredible comeback. The road to the final involved a lot of painstaking work as 4000 teams initially registered for the tournament. These teams were, however, whittled down to 32 and subsequently to 16 via an online voting contest. These 16 teams then went on to compete in a series of matches for a place in the final that eventually produced Fast Five FC as winners of the competition. Speaking after the event was Brand and Activation Manager, Busayo John, who expressed her joy at the successful conclusion of the competition. “We are immensely proud at the manner in which this competition has played out. We sought to reward our consumers by creating an unforgettable experience for them through the Premier Cool Turf Wars event and we are sure we achieved that goal precisely. We identified football as a passion point, but most importantly we wanted to reward those passionate individuals who still take time off work to play and enjoy the game of football. As witnessed in the competition, we have players from all professions you can think of – lawyers, engineers, doctors, and so many others. Football is a cool sport and Premier is a cool brand, so this was a perfect match,” she said. The winning team took home the top cash prize of N3million, while the second and third-placed teams walked away with cash prizes of N1.5million and N750, 000 respectively. The Premier Cool Turf Wars is endorsed by the Lagos State Football Association (LSFA); the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF); and also proudly supported by SociaLiga, a sports entertainment company that aims to bring people together by creating an ambience where people can network and enjoy fun activities. The event was graced by: Managing Director, PZ Cussons, Alex Goma; Head of Marketing, PZ Cussons, Charles Nnochiri; Group Brand Development and Activation Manager, Vivian Akindele; and other representatives from the Lagos State Football Association (LSFA). 