Contrary to the directive given by the Peoples Democratic Party Board of Trustees barring its members from supporting any aspirant running for any position, some BoT members have defied the order.  At least five members of the BoT witnessed the inauguration of the Presidential Nomination Council of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in Abuja on Thursday.  The 59-member council is chaired by a member of PDP BoT, Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu.  Other BoT members at the event include former national chairmen of the party, Okwesilieze Nwodo and Vincent Ogbulafor; ABC Nwosu as well as Stella Omu, Ben Obi.  Last week, the BoT had barred its members from supporting and campaigning for any aspirant ahead of the party’s primaries.  Rising from a meeting in Abuja last Thursday, Chairman of the BoT, Walid Jibril, described as unacceptable situations in the past when its members openly campaigned for aspirants.  “If you are a member of BoT, you remain as a member of BoT and conscience of the party. They should not move about with any aspirant. If we are really the conscience of the party, we should not move about with aspirants. That was what happened during the last national convention when we elected the national chairman.  “Some of us went and pitch camp with aspirants, taking them all over the place. This time, we will not allow that to happen.  “Anyone of us who move about with any aspirant should resign from the BoT. We are the one that will settle the complaint. But if we are involved it will not be fair. So we have told the members not to campaign with the aspirants; we are also the delegates,” Jibril had said.  Speaking at the event, Atiku noted that the struggle for national renewal is usually a difficult one, even as he called on patriots to engage if they hope to improve the lives of their compatriots.  “Assembled here is a diverse group of Nigerians, including experienced political leaders representing all regions and segments of our country. You are all here because you want a better deal for Nigeria and Nigerians. You are here because you are committed to fighting for a better Nigeria, a Nigeria that works.  “Nigerians are yearning for jobs, for opportunities, for unity and security. We must work with them to deliver these. We must also restore truth in politics, justice and fairness in governance, and a genuine federal system that helps us address local priorities and run a more effective and efficient government,” he said. 