The Ghanaian Insurance Industry Is Struggling Ghana is a small nation in terms of population in comparison to peers like Kenya and Nigeria. At 28 million, the population has a long way to go. Basically, this implies a smaller market for the Ghanaian insurance firms. According to analysis by Asoko Insight, the market is quite challenging for the firms. In a word, the firms are barely surviving. Investment insights Asoko Insight is a professional outfit that specialises in data analysis. Specifically, the entity analyses data on Sub-Saharan African companies. According to the company website, they help clients identify leads investment opportunities. In addition, the company monitors corporate developments for the benefit of its clients. Normally, the insurance market is divided into two major sectors. In the analysis, Asoko divides the sectors into Life and Non-life insurance. As per the Asoko analysis, the Insurance market in Ghana is at present very crowded. In fact, the market boasts 49 companies in both life and non-life insurance sectors. Poor market penetration With a total population of 28 million and a market penetration of 2%, the market is at saturation point. As a matter of fact, insurance is quite unpopular in most of African countries. This is perhaps for the reasons that first, most of the population is illiterate. Available surveys conclude that insurance uptake in a market corresponds to its literacy levels. Secondly, the surveys observe that as a country’s population begins to urbanise, insurance premiums increase. As a matter of fact, most of the Ghanaian population is rural. Notably, rural populations care less about life emergencies. Since these life emergencies are the motivators behind taking insurance, the market lacks customers. Thirdly, regarding non-life insurance, Ghana is lacking in terms of industries, huge homes and even cars. There are very few vehicles per capita in Ghana, compared to, say Nigeria. In fact, there are few businesses that can afford an insurance package. For these reasons, the market has less demand. Net negative profitability Interestingly, the low market demand seems to be affecting even the overall growth of the market. According to data by Asoko, the total premium for non-life insurance is at $281 million. This is quite a tidy sum in comparison to $226 million for life insurance. In addition, the market experienced a measly 20% year-on-year growth from 2013 to 2016. Nevertheless, there is notable growth in the life insurance sector. According to the figures at the end of 2016, life insurance premiums more than doubled. Additionally, the data notes an 80% growth in the non-life insurance sector. Furthermore, the analysis notes that there is a challenge in terms of profitability. In fact, data collected indicates a net loss due to low prices of premiums. According to one of the people behind the research: Intense competition in the sector has driven average underwriting profits into the negative for both segments since 2013 as premiums have been lowered to attract new customers. Also, there are very low earnings in terms of commission. Generally, the overall assessment is that the market is less profitable like many companies would like.  For more insights, click the link 