The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) on Monday said Nigeria ranks the first amongst other African countries that practice open dedication and lacked access to healthy sanitation services. The Africa’s largest nation, both in economy and population also loses N455 billion annually due to poor sanitation practiced around the country. Speaking in Port Harcourt at the media dialogue, Zaid Jurji, who is the Chief of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) program of the UNICEF said that sanitation in Nigeria suffers under funding and unprioritisation, and lacked the proper Political and financial commitment to the sanitation sector. He said, “47 million Nigerians still practice open dedication, 39 million have an unimproved sanitation system and 42.8 percent of household uses platforms that are not safe”. According to him, Nigeria requires a total amount of N95. 9 billion per year to eliminate open defecation but could generate N359. 1 billion as economic gain. He also stressed on the need to create a comprehensive awareness of the dangers associated with open defecation as well as its implication on human and economic development. Zaid Jurji, also stressed that the real annual cost to Nigeria on account of poor sanitation amounted to N455 billion which results in deaths, low productivity, ill health suffered by Nigerians and of course cost to the economy. The WASH program is aimed at creating an improved access to clean water, sanitation and hygiene in the Nigeria schools, communities, health facilities and parks to further ensure a the wellbeing of all Nigerians. Jurji explained that access to basic water and sanitation services in the Nigeria facilities such as communities, school, Hospitals, and markets/parks are 20.4 percent, 17 percent, 22.7 percent and 12.4percent respectively. He said “the key issues of the sanitation sector in Nigeria includes; low political and financial commitment, so private sector participation, weak institutional arrangement and limited technical know-how, lack of technology to meet geographical condition”. Martha Hokonya, WASH specialist, UNICEF, said that the focus of the WASH program in the Niger delta is on ensuring a sustainable sanitation system and promoting water projects. However, she explained that the program and project implementation over the years has been constrained and delayed by some factors which includes; delay in states government release of counter- part funding, poor capacity of Contractors coupled with poor contact management. She said “Delta and River states have finalised and approved the WASH policy in their laws, over the years we have reached over 73,500 people with the wash program and we target 120,000 persons per state”. “Our program has been constrained by limited availability of affordable latrine models for riverine communities, poor operational and project monitoring, as well as delay by government in the release of counterpart funding” she added. Elisha Drakopoulos, Chief of communication, UNICEF, said that the WASH program aims at improving feeding, hygiene and sanitation to reduce stunted growth and malnutrition in Nigeria adding that UNICEF will focus more in ensuring early education for children and reduce violence against children. She said “130 million of the Nigeria total population lacks access to proper sanitation, with 93 million children where 1 million children under age 5 dies annually and 1 out of every 4 routinely vaccinated”. Emmanuel Amatemeso, permanent secretary, minister of water resources and rural development, River State, however appealed to UNICEF to pick up more activities in the state to enhance the quality of sanitation in the state adding that the general sanitation sector is severely underfunded. “Funding of projects within the states requires a higher funding as compared to other states because of the environmental peculiarity”.