The 2018 Edition of Young Inventors Technology Expo held in Lagos weekend was the peak of a talent discovery among Nigerian youths, which according to observers has given a hope that Nigerian could compete with the rest of the world if the opportunity is created for young people to express their selves. The event with the theme ‘The Role of Young People in the Development of Technology in Africa’ organised by Center for technology (Center4Tech) held at the Naval Dockyard in Victoria Island, Lagos brought together young people of primary and secondary school age, who displayed talents in different aspects of technology. Young Inventors Tech Expo is a yearly event that started in 2016. The Expo is a one-day event designed to bring together pupils and students of primary and secondary schools across the country to showcase and exhibit their tech projects, solutions and invention while wining prizes and scholarships in different categories. The aim is to support Nigerian children to innovate by catching them young, while grooming them to become the next generation of Inventors who will startup invention and technology-based companies thereby creating jobs for themselves and others, and ultimately reducing poverty and unemployment in our country and our continent. The Tech Expo is the climax of a one month training. ingenuity. Mike Mbon, co-founder, Center for technology (Center4Tech) said the vision to institute this was born out of the desire to provide opportunity and platform to the youth to acquire knowledge while going through a comprehensive training by experts, and also to ensure that the youngsters put their long vacation to gainful activities. He said it has been discovered that technology experts across the world started learning at young age, so it has become imperative that for Nigeria to grow technology we have to build found from childhood. He expressed gratitude to all stakeholders that have contributed to the success of this event for the past three years and encouraged them to continue to identify with this laudable project. This laudable programme which has been running for over 3years now has continued to gain relevance and recognition across the technology stakeholders, the government and corporation organizations.  MODESTUS ANAESORONYE