Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso represents Kano Central in the National Assembly and one of the PDP presidential aspirants in the October 5 and 6 presidential primaries. The immediate past governor of Kano State spoke to journalists after he picked his party’s Nomination and Expression of Interest forms at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja. OWEDE AGBAJILEKE was there. Excerpts: What is your reaction to the dissolution of Kano State PDP exco by the party’s national leadership? Honesty, I am hearing it for the first time. Some of these things, when they happen, you just try and find out, do your best to make the best out of it. In the past, you have argued that the PDP should pick its candidate from the North West. Don’t you think that will polarise the party from other geopolitical zones? Everybody has his own opinion. Even when the party zoned this position of president to the North, you may find somebody who will even want to come and vie from elsewhere. You are free to bring any advice, we are here as members of PDP to advise our leaders, other stakeholders especially the delegates on how to win election easily. By the grace of God PDP will win election in 2019 but I think what you said was a suggestion that look if you are picking, and consider the issue of numbers because politics is a game of number, it is not a game of quality or whatever. Especially that from all indications the APC will print only one form for one person and everybody knows where that person comes from. So, if you go and take from the other side we are afraid that he or they may win as a result of sentiment or as a result of whatever feeling of people from that part of the country. Unfortunately, we find ourselves in this situation now and we have to take everything into consideration. I pray to almighty God to show me when a political party will field a candidate in this country without zoning without anything. So that at the end of the day, Nigerians will look around and pick the best out of Nigeria. But as of this moment we are not there yet unfortunately. Will you elect for direct primaries for PDP? Well, I think parties should look out their situation. The situation of PDP is such that we have gone through all the processes. And we are experienced enough to select the best system for the party. Some of you may still remember that in 1999 when I was elected as governor, the PDP then elected their candidates through direct primaries. And from that experience, we sat down here in this secretariat and thought there was need for us to review it. And that was why in 2003, and since then, we are doing indirect elections. And I am sure one day the party may decide to go back to direct election. But I think now, a decision has been taken by the party to do indirect election. And we are all abiding by the position of the party. So, I think now, it is beyond my opinion or your opinion. The party has taken a position. Don’t you think the October primary is too close to the General Election? There are two issues. There is an issue of parties, there are also issues of INEC. INEC has given us a deadline and each and every party must comply. Most of those people who purchased forms or who are going to purchase forms are either my colleagues as governors, ministers, senators, members of the House of Representatives and so on. We know ourselves very well and for me, I can assure you that we will do everything possible to have a rancour-free primary election and after the primary election, we will come together again and ensure that the party wins. Don’t forget, in 2014, I contested the same seat in Lagos and I came second. I am sure you didn’t hear me say anything against what happened at that time. And we came as a family and I am sure you remember that we had 484 counsellors without any rancour, 44 local government chairmen, 40 state assembly members all for that party (APC) and of course 24 House of Representatives members, three senators, a governor and almost two million votes for the man who is on the seat now (Buhari).  So that is how we operate. I don’t think there is anything that will happen different from what we have seen and done in previous years. What is your reaction to the President’s refusal to sign the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill into law? Our leaders must have known this and must have deliberated. And immediately we resume, I am sure they will bring it up. And as a senator I don’t want us to start speculating now. When the time comes, I am sure you will see me in the chamber of the Senate probably tell the whole world my opinion on that. What is your take on the issue of consensus candidacy? Normally, that is the best. But you see, life is not that easy. There may be some people who would tell you that they would prefer to get one vote and there is nothing you can do. This party should follow due process and rule of law. This party must ensure that everybody is given an opportunity. But if there is that window, which I believe exists, if our leaders can come together and say you are our consensus candidate, I am sure they will give a form and we will stand by you. What stands you out from other presidential aspirants? Looking at you, I know you know the answer. I think there are so many things that are working for me as an aspirant. Some of these things are just by mere luck. Some of them are as a result of hard work, determination and commitment. Take for example, if you come from Kano, it is the most populous state going by the last census in this country and politics is a game of number. Secondly, North West is also the most populous zone. If you look at the figure as they stand now, North West is roughly North East plus North Central. And therefore, North West has more population when you compare it with any other zone in this country. And that is on one side. On the other hand, we are lucky that by the grace of God, we are given long life, we have done so much. We had so many opportunities to interact with so many people in this country. And it is difficult to go to any place now without seeing my personal friend. Because don’t forget, I was Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives in 1992. We had 593 members. We lost just over 100. And you can see that we still have quite a number still living. And I do relate with them. And all these members who are automatic delegates to this Convention are automatically Kwankwasiyya members; meaning they are my supporters. That is the starting point. And we can go on and on. As Minister of Defence, I had so many colleagues. And now I have my colleagues as senators or as members of the National Assembly. And of course, I was in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) representing North West. And I am very happy that I was there to represent North West and it was an opportunity for me to understand the issues in the Niger Delta. I found a situation very horrible to the extent that I had to resign. People were sharing money and doing all sorts of things, I had to resign and submitted my resignation letter directly to the then President Goodluck Jonathan. So I had an opportunity to go round. And above all, we worked so hard in Kano State, especially as governor for eight years to the extent that we did things that many people thought was a miracle the way we did it. And that is why many people are saying that ‘we want him to come and do to Nigeria what he did to Kano State’. In addition, we have also worked as a movement – the Kwankwasiyya Movement. I can tell you today in Northern Nigeria, it will be a great surprise if you get to one house without a member of Kwankwasiyya there. And you must have known by now that the Kwankwasiyya Group is a well -disciplined group. We are so committed to Project Nigeria. I am sure you must have seen some of them who came here for my declaration, which saw so many young men and women from almost all Northern states; some of them were even hiring trailers to come to my declaration during raining season. You can imagine yourself in a trailer and it is raining. But they were happy because they want to ensure that there is good leadership in this country. And I am so happy that we have such young men and women in this country who support us as Kwankwasiyya members. These are people who are not looking for money to go for election. These are people who are determined to vote and protect their votes. And that is the meaning of Kwankwasiyya so all these things put together, gives me an edge over all other (presidential) aspirants. 