Eat’N’GO, the owners of popular food brands such as Domino’ Pizza, Cold Stone Creamery and Pinkberry Gourmet Frozen said it is determined to change literacy status of one thousand children living in slum areas in Nigeria. The company which made the announcement during the commemoration of World Literacy Day on Saturday 8 September, said it is partnering with Slum2School, a non-governmental organization (NGO) that champions the educational course of children in slum areas in Nigeria. In a statement, BusinessDay received the company disclosed that as part of plans to bring quality education for the children, it is commencing a fundraising campaign as well as doing everything within its reach to help kickstart the education project. Earlier on the Literacy Day, Eat’N’Go brands joined Slum2School for a community outreach at Tarkwa Bay where it delivered treats like pizzas, ice cream and frozen yoghurts to underserved children. More than 50 of the company’s employees joined in the 100 Slum2School volunteers and served more a thousand kids.  “There is the formal aspect of signing up the kids but beyond this, we made it a fun day for the kids with pizza, ice cream and yoghurt,” Amalia Sebakunzi said about the outreach. “It’s our own way of saying education is fun.” The outreach also attracted key partners of Eat’N’Go such as Coca Cola which donated water and Coke Zero to the kids; Petershore Concepts donating some t-shirts as prizes for the spelling bee contests, and social media partner Penzaarville Africa joining in the for fun of the day. “This is part of our activities for the ‘A thousand Dreams campaign’ which we have been running for some weeks now,” Otto Orondaam, founder of Slum2School said. “This year has been special to us as not only do we have organizations like Eat’N’Go on this literacy journey with us, we also have hundreds of Nigerians who have taken it upon themselves to help sponsor children from various underserved communities to go to school this forthcoming session.” Cold Stone Creamery took it up a notch this year by creating special flavours for the cause of literacy. Marketing Coordinator for Cold Stone Creamery Bimpe Olanrewaju explained “This year, we decided to invite our customers into this tasty fundraising by offering the new Rainbow Candy and Orange Crust Cream creations. For every cup of these new flavors sold, the company will be donating 100 Naira back to the cause, with the objective of sending 100 kids to school by October. These creations were imagined through the help of asking kids in our stores what their dream flavors would be and voila, they now have these new amazing Creations to enjoy!! This will be a sweet sweet way to go back to school for all the kids this year.” The creations: Rainbow Candy is a delightful mix of Cotton candy ice-cream, the chewy deliciousness of Gummy Bears, Rainbow Sprinkles and Caramel while Orange Crust Cream is mix of Orange Dreamsicle ice cream, whipped cream, pie crust, caramel and Gummy bears . The Eat’N’Go and Slum2School’s relationship is a year old and waxing stronger as both organizations share a passion to promote quality education for all in Nigeria. 