President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Governor-elect of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, who was declared winner of the rerun election. A statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said Buhari hailed Oyetola “for winning the keenly contested governorship election” President Buhari also extended his warm felicitations to the state and national campaign teams that worked assiduously to guarantee the victory at the polls, while commending the outgoing Governor, Rauf Aregbesola for eight years of steadfastness and service to his people. “Thank you Osun State for supporting our good governance agenda by re-electing the APC. I assure you that we will continue to work for the progress and prosperity of the state and the nation,” The President urged the Governor-elect to always remember that the electorate expects unreserved commitment to delivering results that directly impact their lives and families. President Buhari affirmed that the successful election in the State further strengthens the democratic culture in the country, extolling INEC for, once again, making the country proud. President Buhari commends the maturity, loyalty and courage of all contestants in putting in their best to be elected to serve the state, urging them to seek redress in court, where they disagree with the outcome. The Independent National Electoral Commission INEC, had early Friday morning declared the APC candidate winner of the rerun election after scoring a total of 1160 votes in the rerun while the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, candidate, Ademola Adeleke scored 325 votes, according to INEC. INEC’s Returning Officer, Joseph Fuwape declared Oyetola winner, having polled majority of votes in the election, to defeat Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. The outcome of the rerun showed that Oyetola polled a total of 255,505 votes to defeat Adeleke, who got 255,023 votes. Recall that Adeleke had led the APC candidate with 353 votes at the end of the last Saturday election which was declared “ inconclusive “ by INEC.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 