Finally, the EGMONT Group on Wednesday lifted the suspension of Nigeria. Nigeria was suspended on Wednesday, 5th July 2017, from the EGMONT Group, a network of national financial intelligence units and the highest inter-governmental association of intelligence agencies in the world, with 154 member countries including Britain and the United States of America. The resolution was passed at the ongoing 25th EGMONT Group of Financial Intelligence Units’ plenary currently holding in Sydney Australia. The four-day FIUs Plenary which began on the 24th September, 2018 has an estimated of 400 delegates including heads of FIUs in attendance. The EGMONT Group, which is an informal coalition of Financial Intelligence Units from 155 countries around the world is a network that secures exchange of expertise and financial intelligence with capability to fight money laundering, terrorism financing and serious financial crimes. Kayode Oladele, Chairman, House of Representatives’ Committee on Financial Crimes who also attended the meeting, told our Correspondent via telephone chat, said: “It means we are back as a member of the group of Financial Intelligence Units and can share information with our counterparts across the globe. “Beyond that, you’ll recall also that the processing of our application for the membership of the Financial Action Task Force FATF) was suspended hence the high-powered delegation from the FATF that was supposed to come to Nigeria could not come.” Oladele (APC-Ogun) noted that the lifting of the suspension placed on Nigeria from the Egmont group, clears way for the processing of the country’s application for membership to the FATF. “The Plenary of the FATF is coming up in France, I think between 13th to 19th of October, now the Nigerian membership of the FATF will be tabled before the FATF plenary. “Then the visit of the high- level delegation from the FATF will now be done sometime before the end of the year or early next year, depending on the meeting at the plenary in France.”  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 