Oluwatosin Dokunmu As a Small Business Owner or StartUp Business, one of the major challenges one can face is getting one’s brand out there for people to get to know of their existence. In other to get your brand seen, social media is the way to go, but most Small Business Owners don’t know how to leverage on the power of social media. Luckily for them, there are some Instagram accounts that have dedicated their time to helping Small Business Owners to not just push their brands but to also get them to make sales. Here is a little brief about them. TRICIA BIZ @triciabiz is a business growth expert that caters to the needs of entrepreneurs in the Instagram community. She is a Trainer,Speaker and Author. She has trained 8k plus entrepreneurs and still counting. If you are having challenges in growing your business or taking your business to the next level, she will definitely fix your business for growth. She is also the founder of “The Business Gas Station” @tbgsafrica; a Consulting Agency and “Creative Fashion for Kids”@omosekids; a store for Baby/Kids Goods. @triciabiz is a top-notch small business fixer who solely exist to help businesses define their brands, develop custom tailored marketing and sales strategies to help them grow into a sustainable business. She has worked with a lot of amazing brands some of which includes; Unilever, Glaxosmithkline, Nigerian Breweries, British American Tobacco (BAT), MasterCard and Emirates. She has a wide range of business services which includes one-on-one coaching, online courses, trainings and keynote speeches. So, from building a brand to helping others build their brand, @triciabiz is definitely pushing the limits, so be sure to go follow her Instagram page and be amazed at the stuffs you will learn from her to apply to your business. EZIM @_ezim_ is a Consulting Agency that helps StartUps grow their business to a profitable stage. She does this by helping them implement strategies that will attract paying and returning Customers/Clients. She has been dubbed “The StartUp Fairy”. She has resigned herself to helping StartUps avoid some mistakes which she made when she first set out to Start Up her own business. She popularly states that “even though learning might cost you, making avoidable mistakes will cost you more”. She does Business Reviews on her page where Business Owners get to choose the topic and then it is discussed for one while hour. She believes that if you ask the right questions, you will get the right answers. There are also a lot of Personalized Coaching Courses that takes place on her Instagram page where business owners can learn in a period of 30/60 days. She also educates her followers on how to create a sellable product or service, strategies that attract and keep paying customers, how to use Instagram for business; and marketing and sales strategies that guarantee scalable growth. She features a lot of quotes on her Instagram page. Also, her page depicts a girly and chic note with a bright pink look which is appeasing to the eyes. HUSTLER SQUARE @hustlersquare proudly calls herself “The Jagaban of Instagram”. Why you might ask; Well, I guess because she is the “Table Shaker”, the “Game Changer” and she isn’t “Regular”. She features Business Pages on her Instagram account. She started HustlerSquare with a strong belief that every woman deserves equal opportunity to make her own money, be independent and empowered. She is also a strong believer of “Impossible is just but a word”. “We rise by lifting others” and that is what she is out to do on her Instagram account. She believes that Social Media is a great tool and you can meet great minds via this tool; and also make unlimited positive impact worldwide because it is without boundaries. She mentors friend and family in a bid to help them succeed. She longs to share her experience with upcoming vendors to help them shorten the usual time frame for them to find their way and help cut off the unnecessary back and forth. She says that her motive and driving force is that she knows she has it in her what it takes to shine her light on the paths of as many vendors’ she comes in contact with. NAIJA BRAND CHICK @naijabrandchick is an Instagram Brand Influencer. If you are looking for someone who will be passionate about helping you grow your brand on Instagram, then @naijabrandchick is the way to go. She is also the proud founder of @nellies.ng. Every Business Owner should want @naijabrandchick in their corner. Why you ask; apart from the fact that she has a whopping 65.7k followers on her Instagram account, she also runs her own company and as such know the pain and struggle of growing a business. This makes her relatable and approachable to Business Owners. It also makes her a valid candidate when you are looking for someone who understands what you are going through as a Small Business Owner. She does a lot of Live Broadcasts educating her followers on how to efficiently and effectively run their business on Instagram with assured returns and of recent, she posted on how to spot fake Instagram accounts that sell on the app for those who mostly buy stuffs on Instagram and not the open market. WOLE OLUYEMI CO @woleoluyemico is the self-acclaimed Market Place Evangelist. He is a chartered accountant and business advisor by profession, with a passion for Street, Food & Travel photography. WoleOluyemiCo is a regular Public Speaker on SME Businesses, Strategy, Finance & Tax and as such, his Instagram posts and public speaking engagements are targeted at entrepreneurs, business leaders and professionals. Wole Oluyemi’s (@WoleOluyemiCo) Instagram page and his Branded Personal Website (www.woleoluyemi.com) are well branded and structured. The page has a touch of class and excellence. Also, it is definitely one of the fastest growing IG pages from Nigeria that is devoted to businesses and business management issues. @WoleOluyemiCo is gradually developing a community of followers and mentees, especially professionals, business leaders and entrepreneurs through regular posting on topics such as SME businesses, business management, market entry strategy, corporate political strategy, financial strategy and tax strategy. The content on his Instagram page includes Inspirational Quotes, Book Reviews, and Business Opportunities, #AskWoleOluyemi (where he receives and responds to business related questions and provides free advisory to businesses) ), #TableTheMatter (where he shares business issues and case studies for discussions on the timeline), InFocus (platform for featuring growing SMEs), pictures from his street and food photography passion, video chats about business issues (OnPoint) and InstAdvert (a virtual marketplace for SMEs where about 18 SMEs advertises and promote their businesses on a weekly basis). So, if you are an entrepreneur or business leader, @woleoluyemico is a page that you should be interested in following. IFEDUROSINMIETTI @ifedurosinmietti is an Entrepreneur & Author. She is also an advocate for Gender Equality. @ifedurosinmietti is not just an entrepreneur but a Tony Elumelu Entrepreneur and ever since she pitched for the program, she has advocated for the program to emerging entrepreneurs. Aside from all these, she is also the co–founder of @parliamobambini, an Interior Design & Lifestyle company that is child centred. She is an entrepreneur that one can easily relate to. Her Instagram features a lot of motivational and innovational post that is sure to get your day or week started on a bright note. She is also found to post various business opportunities on her page to be grabbed by budding entrepreneurs with the Tony Elumelu Foundation being at the fore front. One of her book “Accessing Grants for StartUps” is a must read for any StartUp or SME. Her advice to budding entrepreneurs is that they should own their truth, focus on their strengths and outsource the rest. Now, that is one heck of an advice if we do say so ourselves. With 18.9k followers; 3,469 followings and 2,697 posts;@ifedurosinmietti is one account SMEs should follow. THE KEN NDUBISI @thekenndubisi is a Facebook Ad Consultant. He specializes in helping businesses drive sales through Paid Ads. So if you are looking to run Ads on your Social Media Platform as an SME, then you should be following him. On his Instagram Account, you will come across a lot of Inspiration, Motivational and Morale Boosting Post that is sure to hopefully gear you in the right direction of taking your business one notch higher. In his own words, @thekenndubisi helps businesses leverage on the power of Facebook Ads to drive leads and sales. He has been able to deliver amazing Facebook Ads results for himself and clients and also helping him maximize number of sales and downloads. At 21 years of age, being young and getting it isn’t such a bad plan afterall. I BRAND YOUR BIZ @ibrandyourbiz is a Business Consultant that specializes in the growth of StartUps/Small Businesses. She helps Small Businesses gain visibility on Social Media. She has an avid passion for driving sales on Small Business Instagram Accounts. She also gives webinars & master–classes on her Instagram Account. @ibrandyourbiz also runs “The Business Like a pro Academy” where excellent training content are being shared with a very knowledgeable trainer in the person of “Favour Iniama”. She just recently concluded a Live Event she titled “Passion to Sales” which saw a lot of StartUps attend and gain a lot from the event. She also posts motivational videos on her page. @ibrandyourbiz is an Instagram account to look out for because after all is said and done gaining visibility on Social Media and driving sales is what StartUps need and @ibrandyourbiz is here ready to help StartUps achieve that goal. All in all, she is passionate about seeing StartUps thrive in the Instagram community. DACHEOMEDIA @dacheo_media is a media company. They are proactive and passionate in their media efforts. They also take Business Owners on Digital Trainings (visit @dacheomedia_academy to learn more on this). When you visit their Instagram page, you will see a lot of businesses featured there. Also, their Instagram Account echoes Style and Elegance. IDENTITY COACH @identitycoach Instagram Account is owned by Yetunde Bankole–Bernard, a Personality and Personal Branding Expert. When you visit her page, what will definitely grab your attention is the effective and efficient use of colours which helps to hold her followers attention. With a 3,451 followership rate, it will be wise for SMEs to follow her & tapfrom her wider-range of wisdom and knowledge. She is the boss & Lifestyle Travel Curator at Travelden (@traveldenng) where travel & vacation destination are featured. She is the brain behind “The YouNow Workshop”.She recently had a seminar she termed “The Worship Room” which she defined as a place for “Spiritual Incubation”. She usually centres her talks on Self Esteem, Self Worth, Confidence and Identifying Purpose. She is also the visionary behind @recallformen which is a movement for men by men to bring out their fullest potential. All these and more wrapped up in a perfect gift to the world in the person of Yetunde Bankole–Bernard; the sky is just the beginning for her and her followers. SEUN OFOEGBU @seunofoegbu is a Virtual Assistant Trainer & Online Business Specialist. She teaches skills that help you earn online (especially on Instagram). She recently took a Live Instagram master–class that equipped Business Owners with some skills sets to help them manage their Instagram Business Page. Also, if as an SME, you are looking for tips on how to manage your business financies and get to your business financial goal, then you should be following her Instagram Page. When you visit her page, your attention will be inadvertedly brought to the bright hue of green seen on the page which makes for a refreshing look. REAL NAIJA HUSTLERS @realnaijahustlers is known to go by different accolades. She is known as the Mama Adviser of Instagram, the Hustlers Messiah and the Hype Mistress. She is a brand influencer that helps the growth of StartUp Businesses. She is known to feature a lot Business Pages on her Instagram page. If you really need a push on your Business page as a StartUp, then you really need to be following her. Lolade Akinmurele 