Even as she lost her bid to vie for a seat at the Lagos State House of Assembly in 2014, popular singer, Kenny Saint Brown, has said she is not done with politics yet. In a recent phone chat with Bliss, the singer said she put a hold to contest for any elective political position this season but it won’t be so in 2023. “I am very much into politics. It is just that right now, I am not vying for any political post. But I am in a campaign train of a particular sitting governor who I don’t want to mention his name at the moment. I work with the grassroots and I am getting more integrated and learning about proper politics and not ‘politricks’.  I want to add value to the lives of those in the grassroots. In the next four years, I would contest for election.’” She said. But at the moment, KSB, as she is fondly called, has started a radio talk show, which she says gives her so much passion. “It is part of the gospel. I want to reach more people. I have been ministering in the last 10 years. I have passion for people. People are giving up easily. This is just adding to what I have been doing. People are going through a lot of issues. If you are able to overcome a particular issue in life, you try and encourage others.” KSB said her talk show and the other genres of entertainment she has veered into don’t affect her music in any way. “This is my 20 years in the music industry.  I am more than the music. I have written a book and I am working on three other books. I have become cerebral. The inspiration is flowing.  Nothing suffers. I still released a worship song this year. I have recorded four songs again this year.” Still looking quiet energetic even after 50 years, KSB related her looks to genes. “In my family we don’t get old like that. We usually look 15 years younger than our ages. It is just the grace of God. I always say to myself that God renews my youth like that of an eagle.  My children are teenagers now. Just being with them keeps me strong and youthful.  And then, I don’t keep any negative vibes in my heart. I don’t habour anger and bitterness in my heart. Such things make you get old. 