Bolaji Abdullahi, a former Publicity Secretary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has officially declared his intention to run for governorship race on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) in Kwara State. Abdullahi, who made his official declaration on Wednesday at ARCA Santa event Centre in Ilorin Kwara State noted that his vision is to make Kwara State a shining example for good governance, where the full potentials of children are nurtured and youths are truly empowered. The gubernatorial hopeful popularly called “Omoluabi”  said: ” my vision is to make Kwara State a shining example for good governance, where the full potentials of children are nurtured; where youths are truly empowered; where the most vulnerable among us are best protected and where government works for all. my goals include; youths empowerment for growth, competitiveness, economic transformation, provide quality education and as well support lifelong learning.” Speaking further, Bolaji assured his plan to ensure good health, improved well-being of the people, develop infrastructure for economic growth and improved livelihood, promote good governance for transparency, efficiency and accountability. Other areas to touch lives of kwarans according to him are; rehabilitation of lacal industries, develop ICT, agriculture, education, sports, turism, creative industry among other things. “I have learnt over the years that people should be at the very centre of government department agenda. If government invest in the people and empower them, they will be able to take charge of their lives and become productive actors for growth and development. “This is even more so for the youths population which remain our greatest asset. Genuine empowerment for the youths capacity ,will not only yield great dividends today but will also set us on the path to sustainability in the future. “Our strategies will prioritize preventive health-care, work towards reducing infant and maternal mortality and develop sustainable waste management system.” Abdullahi, who is also a former Minister for Sports, at the event was in company of the Secretary to the Kwara State Government, Isiaka Gold, serving and retired Permanent Secretaries in the state , serving and former local government chairmen, PDP members and supporters among others.  