Senate President, Bukola Saraki has attacked President Muhammadu Buhari and All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government saying they lacked the vision, capacity and patience to develop Nigeria. A Government House statement on Thursday signed by Fidelis Soriwei, Special Adviser to Governor Henry Seriake Dickson said Saraki stated this when his presidential campaign team paid a courtesy call on the governor in Government House, Yenagoa. Saraki who said the country was in dire need of a leader like him with demonstrable capacity to unite the nation tasked Nigerians to replace the current APC leadership, which had caused disunity in the country. While assuring that he would create a sense of belonging through fair distribution of appointments in the country, he stated that it was impossible for anybody to give what he did not have as demonstrated by the inadequacies of the current APC leaders. Saraki stated that Nigeria needed a young vibrant leader with the capacity to withstand the rigours of governance at all time accompanied with the inseparable willingness and capacity to give 24 hours attention to the demands of the job. Comparing Nigeria to the Asian Tigers, he opined that they were able to develop their countries through their painstaking commitment and patience in dealing with issues of governance and appealed to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) delegates to consider him for the candidature of the party. Saying that as the PDP presidential flag bearer he would make the requisite difference in the governance of the country, he laid into those against restructuring by pointing out that it was wrong to perceive restructuring as a move to develop a few states. Saraki said that restructuring would create opportunities for the respective states of the federation to actualise their developmental potentials and ensure national growth in the interest of future generation of Nigerians. He said “2019 is a very crucial election for this country; we are at the crossroads as we have never been so disunited as we are today. Wherever you go, people ask questions: where do you belong? We need to address the issue of unity in this country. It is time for everybody to have a seat on the table, a time for everyone to have a sense of belonging in this country. It is not about me. “There is a new order in the world today. Wherever we go, we see leaders that have vision, that are ready to develop their countries. A lot of us talked about the Asian Tigers, but they did not come by chance, or trial and error; they became tigers because they have visionary leaders. “They are leaders that are ready to defend their countries, that have an idea of what they want to do. As I keep on saying, you cannot give what you don’t have. Where we are now, we have a leadership that has no vision for us. We must bring visionary leadership to the presidential level so we can move this country forward.” In his remarks, Governor Dickson said that the time has come for the country to move away from the evil of bigotry and a leadership founded on feelings of sectional superiority while calling for a regenerated Nigeria where all could be trusted and appointed into sensitive positions irrespective of ethnicity and region. Dickson stressed that Nigerians were truly deserving of a country where anybody could be Director of the Department of State Service or Chief of Army Staff and other sensitive positions irrespective of region, ethnicity or religion. He restated the position of the elders and leaders of the Niger Delta region that the 2019 election would be a referendum on restructuring. Dickson said that the people of the Niger Delta who had made costly sacrifices for the sustenance of the country with their sweat and blood, but were treated with disdain for the past 60 years, were passionate about the demand for the restructuring. He called on PDP presidential aspirants to show restraint in their utterances and to be committed to the pursuit of the objective of electoral victory in favour of the party in 2019. In his words: “I agree with you that our nation must move away from bigotry. We must work together and build a new Nigeria for all Nigerians, a nation for the few as well as a nation for the many. “We need a nation of all Nigerians and not a nation for one ethnic group, religious faith or one geo-political region in Nigeria. “We must get quickly to that point where we build a new Nigeria; where to be appointed as Director General of the Department of State Service or the Chief of Army Staff, the Inspector General of Police, the Chief Justice of Nigeria and to be whatever you want to be, you don’t need to come from a particular tribe, or someone who worships one type of God or another.”  Samuel Ese, Yenagoa 