The Nigerian Bar Association Section Business Law, (NBA-SBL) has elected new officers to steer the affairs of the Section for another two years. The newly elected Council Chaired by Seni Adio, SAN, was inaugurated last week in Abuja. Amongst those elected to Council are Ayuli Jemide, vice chair, Dr. Adeoye Adefulu, Secretary, Chinyere Okorocha, treasurer and Isaiah Bozimo, Assistant Secretary. Others are, Okey Egbuchu as Adviser, Communications; Mena Ajakpovi, Research & Training; A.G Abubakar, Zonal Officer, North; Ama Etuwewe, Zonal Officer, West; Omubo Victor Frank-briggs: Zonal Officer, East, Mayma Belo-Osagie, Member; Sam Aiboni, Member; Fola Akande, Member; Olawale Akoni, SAN, Member; and Ajibola Olomola, also a Member. The new chairman while giving his remarks, pledged to do his best to match and do even more than what has already been done to bring SBL to its current state. He also thanked his predecessors for a job well-done in improving the session. As a prelude to the inauguration, the NBA-SBL had a session themed ‘Building Institutions to Support Fiscal and Economic Reforms,’ where the former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia in his presentation stated that a developmental state paradigm is the only way to achieve sustainable development in Nigeria. According to him, the developmental state paradigm has some elements which include a strong commitment to property rights, strong markets and the sanctity of contracts – a mix that never fails to assure foreign investors; as the term implies, development is of utmost national priority, even though the state may sometimes tend to be rather authoritarian in nature; land reforms and so on. He attributed the poor performance of Africa in the economy to many factors such as bad leadership, cultural mindset, and historical background and so on. The session also had other speakers such as Dr. Joseph Abah, Toyin Bashir, Prof. Anthony Kila and Dr. Ayo Teriba, who spoke on economic risk management. 