The important role that physical education plays in the overall development of a total child has again being reiterated by education experts. They observe that by playing sports, students learn the importance of hard work, perseverance and the importance of grasping opportunities. According to them, “Academic learning and sports complement each other, but it is often overlooked a lot by parents and institutions”. Over the years, experts in the educational field have come to identify the critical importance of sports, games and recreation in the learning process. Jomills Henry Braddock, research director of the University of Miami’s Center on sport in society in his research on the impact of sports in learning observes that students who participate in sports appear to perform academically well than their counterparts. “Sports require teamwork in the pursuit of mutual goals to achieve success. With sports, young people learn to recognise and value the unique and important contributions of their diverse teammates.” says Braddock Greensprings is one institution that is big on sports. Their approach to education is one that incorporates sports into their educational framework. Sport is essential to learning as it teaches children life skills like teamwork, leadership and patience; says Kemi Famiyude, Elementary school principal, Anthony Campus, Greensprings School. An in-depth look at our sporting timetable during every school year only reveals the emphasis we place on sports as a fundamental part of our educational structure.  She says. We understand the importance of sports and physical education in the psychological and physiological development of our children and this is why as a school, our students have their PE lessons 2 times a week. Greensprings School organises several events tied to sport activities during the school year. Some of which include basketball clinic, sports day and Greensprings Kanu Football camp (GKFC) which is held in April every year. Our dedication to developing our students in this key area has led to our emergence as champions in various competitions. In 2016, our football team emerged national champions at the GTBank masters cup and the Nottingham cup in the United Kingdom. The Greensprings Kanu Football Camp has also produced 9 scholars till date some of which are part of the Nigeria under 15 and Under 17 teams. 