Former Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar; the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Kuka; Primate of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Nicholas and former Chief of General Staff, Ebitu Ukiwe under the auspices of the National Peace Committee have urged Nigerian voters, the Independent National Electoral Commission(INEC), the security agencies and other stakeholders to ensure the peaceful conduct of the 2019 election.  Speaking to reporters after a close door meeting with the Chairman of INEC, Mahmoud Yakubu, Abdulsalami, who is the chairman of the Peace Committee, said ” we are approaching the 2019 election and already we as very much aware how the polity is been heated as a result of which we have decided to start our action in ensuring that there is peace in the country and the politicians play by the rule of the game, and also the security agencies and the INEC play their role accordingly.”  The committee chairman also after meeting with the political parties urged them to eschew politics of bitterness, saying ” if there is no peace in any country, there will be no country at all”. He added that the committee will continue to engage the stakeholders to bring about free, fair and credible election.  While admonishing the political parties to sensitize the populace, he charged them to minimize the level of provocation in their campaign to win votes from the electorate.  Speaking to reporters, the chairman of the Inter-party Advisory Council (IPAC), Peter Ameh, who is also the National Chairman of the Progressive Peoples Alliance(PPA), noted that the political parties are working to ensure that the wishes of the Nigerian people are reflected in the votes they cast at the election and not upturned through the backdoor.  ” I believe that if our elections are devoid of cheating, devoid of manipulation, devoid of intimidation, there will be peace and there will be credibility in our election, ” he said.  He also urged Nigerians to resist the temptation by politicians to buy their votes, irrespective of how poor they might, stressing that such attitude will not enhance the people, neither will it strengthen Nigeria’s democracy. The highlight of the event was the launching of the 2015 National Peace Committee Report entitled “2015 General Elections: The Untold Story”.  Recall that members of the committee were instrumental in the peace pact that was signed between former President Goodluck Jonathan and the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, which largely led to the peaceful conduct of the 2015 elections and led to the then opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) defeating the then ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Presidential election.  The National Peace Committee is being hosted by the Kuka Center for Faith, Leadership and Public Policy. 