The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday described the outcome of supplementary governorship election in Osun State as a black day. The main opposition party stressed that the future of Nigerian democracy is bleak, pointing out that the nation sliding into crisis. It therefore urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to immediately cancel the elections in all the units where security agencies seized the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) of PDP members and also where their members were prevented from voting. The party which described the election as a seige against the Nigerian people added that the election has revealed the rigging template of the All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of 2019 general elections. Addressing a press conference on Thursday after an emergency National Working Committee (NWC), the national chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, expressed concern that the ruling party may not vacate office if the loose the 2019 presidential election. Secondus, lamented that Osun is under siege and the citizens’ right trampled upon. He said: “What we have witnessed in Osun show clearly that APC is not ready for election and we are afraid that Buhari will not handover if he loses election next year. “Today we are all aware of the rerun election in Osun state as we address the press conference. We the members of the National Working Committee (NWC) has reviewed what has happened since, from the distribution of materials to the actual voting that has taken place in some of the units and wards. “We found that Osun is under siege, therefore today is a black day for Nigeria. We would think that it is a state or some units, but if you look at what has transpired so far from Ekiti to Osun state, Nigerians are groaning in pains especially the Osun people. The right of the citizens to be able to come out and vote had been trampled upon and the entire state and the wards and units have been seized by the security agencies who are acting on behalf of APC to make sure the election is rigged by all means. “We are sad that if this is what is going to tale place in 2019, then the future of Nigerian democracy is bleak and we are sliding into crisis.” The party Chairman said that PDP members, supporters and citizens of Osun are weeping for the soul of Nigeria, warning those perpetrating evil to watch, wait and see what would happen next. “We want to call on our security chiefs that they sworn to defend Nigeria and not to defend and protect one party. Nigeria is a multi party state, a multi party nation, but what we have witnessed in Osun show clearly that APC is not ready for election and we are afraid that Buhari will not handover if he loses election next year,” he said. Secondus challenged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to rise above what is happening in Osun and declare PDP candidate immediately as the winner of Osun. Also the PDP deputy national chairman, South-west, Eddy Olafeso, noted that security agents colluded with the APC people by allowing those wearing uniform bearing the APC governorship name to vote. He pointed out that in Orolu and Garage Olode and some of the units, the PVCs of PDP members were seized and INEC staff were induced with cash they cannot refused. “The APC governorship candidate is given a free hand to do whatever he wants to do, while our people are muscled away from the units “They arrested our leaders especially in Osogbo, Alhaji Diekola is still in custody and Dr. Muyiwa Oladimeji is still in custody. Our people have been harassed and chased away like animals from where they are supposed to carry out their civic duties,” Olafeso lamented.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja  