Preparatory for the resumption from two month annual recess, some members of the House of Representatives under the aegis of Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) have unveiled plans to avert schemings to oust Speaker Yakubu Dogara by the leadership of All Progressive Congress (APC). This is coming on the heels of recent threats issued by Adams Oshimhole, APC National Chairman, to take-over the leadership of the National Assembly from the opposition members, Members of the House of Representatives under the auspices of the Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) said they are keeping vigil and are prepared to defend the “authority, right and mandate of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara against any threat from any quarters.” Timothy Golu, spokesperson for the group who disclosed this in a statement issued in abuja, argued that any attempt to undermine the Legislature or the Speaker’s position on account of his desire to seek re-election through the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will be resisted from all fronts by members across party divides. “Our attention has been drawn to media reports suggesting that the leadership of All Progressives Congress, (APC) is plotting to remove the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara after he accepted PDP nomination forms from his constituents to re-contest his seat. “Much as we believe that this is an exercise in futility, we however want to state categorically clear that any attempt to instigate crisis or undermine the authority, right or position of the Speaker on account of this political action, which is legal and constitutional will meet a brick wall from members. Golu maintained that “As it is now, not only Speaker Yakubu Dogara, we have many other members, including a principal officer who have signified interest to join the band wagon. So we can effectively say that on resumption, Dogara will be presiding over a House with PDP in majority. “We have already mobilized our members to monitor situations and keep vigil 24/7 both in National Assembly and outside to ensure that no any act of impunity is brought to bear on account of Speaker’s political decision,” the Plateau lawmaker said. It will be recalled that Dogara accepted the PDP nomination and expression of interest form from his constituents on Thursday to seek reelection into the House of Representatives. In swift reaction to Dogara’s defection to PDP, Yekini Nabena, APC’s acting National Publicity Secretary who aligned with President Muhammadu Buhari’s submission on the defecting APC members, maintained that the defecting members are “weakest people whose senses of expectation do not align with our vision have exited our Party”. Nabena argued that “Dogara’s reported defection has not come to us as a surprise. It was only a matter of time judging by Dogara’s anti-party antics in the National Assembly where in connivance with the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, he exploited all available avenues to sabotage and undermine the APC-led executive. Dogara’s anti-party activities which enabled one of the opposition Party’s sole victory in Bogoro Local Government Area (Dogara’s council) during the recent Bauchi South Senatorial bye-election won by the APC is another pointer, among several others. “Indeed, all politics is local. As a Party, we empathise with Dogara on his confusion and despair over his bleak political future given the fact that he is not on ground and a political paperweight in his home Bauchi state. In his emergence as Speaker, Dogara was merely used by his political master to achieve their selfish political ends at the time. They have since moved on to pursue their individual political aspirations and left Dogara in the cold.” He however advised Dogara against his ill-advised decision to re-contest his House of Representatives seat under the opposition party he is linked with because a crushing and humiliating defeat surely awaits him.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 