Over the last decade, Nigeria has experienced an ICT boom and Omolola Onabanjo, chief executive officer of LollyP Accessories, a start-up business that sells ICT gadgets in Lagos, has positioned himself to tap from this opportunity. Omolola’s love for mobile phones inspired him to establish LollyP Accessories in 2011 while still an undergraduate. He started by buying blackberry phones from various stores in Ikeja and selling them in school, making a margin from each sale. The graduate of Olabisi Onabanjo University says that the patronage from friends and course mates was very high, making him see a good business opportunity. “I was buying and selling phones to my friends back then in school and making a little margin. The demand from friends and course mate was on the rise, so I decided to establish LollyP Accessories to meet up with the demand,” he says. “I was getting patronage on a daily basis from referrals from my course mates and friends, but I could not meet up because it was capital intensive to store phones. So, I decided to focus on the accessories instead. “Once a new phone is launched, I try to find out its weakness and then begin to stock their parts. For example, for blackberry, I realise that the battery shelf life is low so I had a lot of blackberry batteries in stock,” Omolola says. “I also realise that there was high demand for power bank because of the poor power supply in the country. So, I had a lot of power bank in stock and there was a high demand of it from students,” the young entrepreneur states. Omolola tells Start-Up-digest that he started his business with no capital. “To be candid, I started my business with zero capital. The strategy I used then was to help some of my friends and my course mates who wanted to buy or sell new or used smartphones, laptops and some other gadgets at a commission,” he explains. “From every commission made, I saved a little and, in 2011, I had enough to establish my business,” he adds. The young entrepreneur says his business has been able to scale up since starting and has done delivery in 30 states across the country. He notes that social media has helped him tremendously to grow his business since starting. “Thank God for social media and e-commerce platforms such as Jumia and Konga, amongst others. My business has amplified since the invention of these platforms. They have really enhanced the growth of my business and helped me survive even without a physical outlet yet,” Omolola says. “I run my business 100 percent online and through online referral I get offline orders and at the moment we have been able to deliver to 30states so far in the country,” he says. Omolola says he sources most of the accessories from manufacturers directly and also from international online stores. He adds that he plans to expand his business by having a store and representatives to sell the gadgets in each higher institution of learning across the country. “One of my plans is to have an offline outlet very soon, which is going to major in varieties of accessories to gadgets. Also, I plan to have campus representatives across various universities that sell my products. I have already done that with my alumni but I am currently working towards other university as well,” he says. It has not all been rosy for Omolola as the business has suffered trust issues. The entrepreneur says it has been very challenging convincing clients that he offers excellent service owing to high rate of fake social media accounts set up to dupe people. He notes that the business is gradually addressing the issue by telling clients to pay on delivery. He also identifies lack of finance as another major challenge facing the business and logistics. He states that logistic time has taken longer hours owing to the poor state of road infrastructure across the country, while calling on the government to improve on Nigeria’s road infrastructure and create access to finance for startups. On his advice to others, Omolola says, “Never stop building meaningful relationship with customers and other people in your industry. Choosing to instead view competitors as potential partners and collaborators can positively impact your business in a big way.”  Josephine Okojie 