Folorunsho Adeola, fondly called Arike Gold has some phobias in life and one of the greatest fears is the fear of getting old. In a chat with Bliss recently, the actress said each time she celebrates a birthday, the fear of having added another year to her age scares her a lot. “When I look at myself now and think back how I was 10 years ago, ah! I tell myself that I am really getting old and I get scared. I see people who are 50 and above and I realize that one day I will be like them. It scares me. So the slaying aspect of my life will not be there again. If you do some certain things at that age, people will quickly remind you that you are no longer young and you shouldn’t be doing such. If you wear something, people will ask you why you wore that. I am so scared of old age. Each time I remember that I am plus one, I get scared. I won’t be in my 20s again. I am in my 30s now. So Gosh! I will be in my 40s. It is scary!” Getting old is not the only phobia she has; Arike said she is also afraid of marriage. “I am scared of marriage. I hate to lose. If I want to do something, I want to make sure that I am ready for it. I know it is not in our industry that marriages fail. It is just because we are in the eye of the public and that is why people get to talk about us a lot. People know everything about you and can even say what you had for breakfast. I have not been married but God will not allow my marriage to fail. The right man hasn’t come. Known to also be a shy person, Arike said her shyness doesn’t affect her career. “I am only shy offset and when I am not with my friends. If I meet people for the first time, I am usually so shy. I am trying so hard to overcome it. It was even so bad before now. However, camera is my friend. I am not shy in front of camera.” In fact, she loves her job so much that she has not considered leaving it for a minute. “I love it more than anything in the world. I used to run a business alongside my acting career but it didn’t work. I didn’t have time to monitor the business. “I fell in love with entertainment when I was very young. I didn’t care the genre of entertainment. But when I got into school, I was involved in stage plays. And so, when I left school, I decided I wanted to be a professional actor. I told my mum and she introduced me to one of her friends, Toyin Adegbola. So officially I started acting in 2007.” 