The 2018 summit of the Forum for China Africa Cooperation (FOCAC) just ended in Beijing last Tuesday and Nigeria’s involvement has elicited mix reactions from experts in international relations and policy analysts in diverse ways. Chinese President Xi Jinping pledged a support fund of $60 billion to African countries to support vital sectors of their economies as a follow up to the initial $60 billion the Chinese government earmarked for Africa during the last FOCAC summit in Johannesburg, South Africa in 2015. Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari, who addressed the summit, expressed confidence that the partnership with China through FOCAC, has produced remarkable results in the execution of vital infrastructural projects across the country, valued at over $5 billion in the last three years of his administration. President Buhari stressed that through the Chinese support, Nigeria had impressively addressed significant challenges in the areas of infrastructure, human capacity development, power, transport, agriculture and humanitarian assistance. “For Nigeria, our partnership with China through the FOCAC platform, has resulted in the construction of the first urban rail system in West Africa. This $500 million project in Abuja was commissioned in July this year,” the President said in the statement issued by his aide Garba Shehu. The President also lauded the construction and operation of the first rail system in Africa that uses modern Chinese standards and technology, saying “This 180km rail line that connects Abuja and Kaduna was commissioned two years ago at a cost of $500 million. Today the rail line is functioning efficiently with no issues  indeed, a sign that Chinese technology is world class. Nigeria is leveraging Chinese funding to execute $3.4 billion worth of projects at various stages of completion. These include the upgrading of airport terminals, the Lagos – Kano rail line, the Zungeru hydroelectric power project and fibre cables for our internet infrastructure. Furthermore, less than three months ago, Nigeria signed an additional $1billion loan from China for additional rolling stock for the newly constructed rail lines as well as road rehabilitation and water supply projects,” the President added. The Charge’d Affair of the Chinese Embassy to Nigeria, Lin Jing in a post FOCAC media parley in Abuja on Thursday, reassured that China will continue to explore means that would improve economic and bilateral cooperation with Nigeria. He stated that the Beijing action plan 2019-2021 has as a cardinal point of action, the industrial and capacity building programme for African countries. “This will translate to the establishment of 10 Lubab training centres; these centres will equip Africans with unique manufacturing skills, and provide 50,000 scholarships opportunities,’’ Jing disclosed. He said China will support Nigeria in producing products that meet international competitiveness standards, adding that in November, China will host an import-export trade fair meant to attract more trade and investments from other countries, as a way of improving bilateral trade. The Chinese envoy however, debunked claims that China is on a mission to colonize Africa, stressing that the Chinese president is doing all, he could to ensure equality in all his dealings with the continent.  