Investors have been assured that the upcoming 2019 general elections would not hinder or affect the implementation of government programmes and policies, most especially the Economy Recovery Growth Plan (ERGP).
Udoma Udo Udoma, the Minister of Budget and National Planning, made this known to key investors while giving the opening address at an investors roundtable coordinated by the Business Council for International Understanding (BCIU) at the ongoing United Nation’s General Assembly (UNGA) in New York, during the week. The Minister further explained that the plan was built after consultations with all the relevant sectors from the private sector, development agencies, academia and sub national government level. Noting that it is a medium term economic blueprint, which runs through until 2020 after the elections.  The investors also showed confidence in the Nigerian market tagging it the best destination in Africa for investments due to the presence of enormous natural and human resources. They also expressed interest in scaling up investments, as they believe the current administration has committed itself to establishing a conducive business environment in the country.  Udoma thanked them for their support and willingness to inform other investors of opportunities in Nigeria. He reiterated the commitment of the Buhari led administration to growing the economy by fighting corruption, investing in health and education, developing infrastructure and insurgency.
“The present government inherited a challenged economy with very weak fundamentals, but has worked towards not only getting the economy out of recession, but placing it on a path of sustained inclusive growth through a series of policy initiatives  and deliberate actions”, he said.  Still speaking on the upcoming elections, the Minister of Finance Zainab Ahmed, made it known to investors that the President has instructed all government officials to focus mainly on the business of governance, not paying any mind to the upcoming elections.  She also stated that significant progress had been made in the stabilization of the country’s currency, consistent downward inflation, increasing foreign reserves, fiscal discipline and other measures aimed at bettering the economy and increasing investor confidence.  Okechukwu Enelamah, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment also spoke along similar lines, speaking on efforts and plans of the Federal Government to grow the economy and boost investment. He closed his remark by announcing that the ministers are ready to serve and are available to address problems and the private sector.  Speaking to investors on the role of the state in facilitating and supporting investment, Godwin Obaseki, the Governor of Edo State, spoke on the collaboration between States and the Federal Government, through the National Economic Council to create an enabling environment for businesses to thrive.  “States are the laboratories were all Federal Government policies are being implemented. They are the platforms for practicalizing the policies and initiatives brewed in Abuja”, he said. 