Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, has again slammed the Presidency over its reaction to his (Atiku’s) recent interview with Bloomberg, where he chided President Muhammadu Buhari for failing in the fight against corruption and becoming power drunk by trying to override the Rule of Law. The Presidency in defense of President Buhari had retorted to the interview saying “President Buhari is uncompromising in the quest to restore probity and accountability to public office. He is uncompromising in cleaning the rot Nigeria was consigned into pre-2015, thus the war against corruption is being fought without fear or favour. The President is equally resolute in the determination to ensure that Nigeria is no longer a mono-economy, depending only on oil.” However,  Atiku in a statement issued on Thursday by his Media Adviser, Paul Ibe, queried that if President Buhari’s position on corruption is true, then why did the Presidency do nothing as the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, went to court to secure a kangaroo court order to stop the Senate of the National Assembly from investigating who recalled, reinstated and double promoted Abdulrasheed Maina? Atiku said further that no matter the level of propaganda of the Buhari apologists, the claim that President Buhari is “uncompromising in cleaning the rot Nigeria was consigned into pre-2015” has been destroyed by the latest Corruption Perception Index by Transparency International, which  revealed that Nigeria is more corrupt today than she was in 2015, having moved 12 steps backwards in Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index, moving from 136 in 2014 under the PDP to 148 today. On the issue of the alleged forgery of the Discharge Certificate of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), leveled against the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, Atiku again asked “how uncompromising a President can be when he allows a minister accused of forgery to remain at her job? Atiku averred that President Buhari appears to be surrounded by people who have become his echo chamber and are telling him what he wants to hear, stressing “that no one in his right mind would call an administration that increased the price of petrol while at the same time paying more subsidy on the product than the previous government which it accused of ‘subsidy scam’, uncompromising against corruption. “It is only common sense that if the price of petrol increased by 68% from ₦87 per litre to ₦145, then the cost of fuel subsidy should also reduce, especially as the price of crude oil also reduced. However, by some strange mathematics, the Buhari administration pays a whopping ₦1.4 trillion on subsidy per annum according to the minister of state for petroleum. This amount is almost twice what the Jonathan administration paid and yet President Buhari accused that administration of scamming the nation. Where is the transparency in that?” Atiku asked. The Wazirin Adamawa also mocked the Presidency, pointing out that it is not surprising that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu had revealed in a leaked memo that $25 billion worth of contracts were awarded by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation under the watch of the supervising Minister of Petroleum, President Muhammadu Buhari himself. “More than a year after the probe panel which probed the fantastically corrupt Ikoyi apartment billions affair, nobody knows who owned the money and how $43 million in cash was housed in a government linked flat, so much for an uncompromising attitude to corruption!” Atiku said. On the issue of being power-drunk, Atiku said that President Buhari is his own witness against himself adding that it goes without saying that a President who publicly boasted that the rule of law can be suppressed against certain individuals is not only power drunk, but dictatorial. “By that statement made by President Buhari at the opening ceremony of the 58th Annual General Conference of the Nigerian Bar Association, Nigerians now understand why this administration continues to flout court orders. This is what happens when a President thinks he is above the law,” Atiku noted. The PDP Presidential hopeful however, advised the Presidency to familiarise itself with the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 as amended, in order to understand that the Rule of Law and the fundamental human rights of all Nigerian citizens are guaranteed by that document which the President swore to uphold on May 29, 2015.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja 