The Nigerian Navy has said that over 300 patrol boats were acquired in the last three years. The Navy further boasted that threats from militants groups, under whatever guise, will not materialise,owing to its repositioning strategies. These disclosures were made at an interactive session organised by the Directorate of Information, Naval headquarters. The Director of Information, Commodore Ayo Olugbode, who anchored the session that had other senior officers in attendance, said, apart from the 300 boats, about 200 locally-constructed craft, had been added to the operational capability of the Navy. Hear the Navy: “We have about 300 bottom boats that can comb our creeks. When you talk of preparedness, it encompasses logistics arrangements, training. As it is the Navy is one organisation that is so ready in terms of logistics to sustain the ships at sea. “The Navy is spread throughout our coastline starting from Lagos to Bonni in Port Harcourt, calabar and some off shore locations.
Nigeria is not as bad as they want us to believe. “Our major threats in the Maritime world is crude oil theft,pipeline vandalism and activities in the Niger delta area. In the Niger Delta, Bayelsa alone has over 3000 creeks. And the only way we can track is using bottom boats and I will like to say that this present Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, has done a lot. “He has purchased over 300 boats to patrol the creeks, and with this, there is reduction in crude oil theft in those corridors On threats by one of the militant groups in the oil-rich region, the Navy said: “don’t think there is any militants in what ever way they will come that will dare the Navy to the extent that they will give a date to strike, and then come and get away with it. Never in this time . If it happened then, that must be some years back, not this current Navy you are talking of. “The Nigerian Navy is resolute in achieving it’s set objectives as enshrined in our Constitution. It is recognised that the sea is (prined) to both internal and external threats which can sabotage some sensitive economic and maritime assets and this threats potend danger to the nation’s well being and security if is not stopped. “The Nigerian Navy has made stringent efforts to mitigate the threats but constraints by some factors which you are aware including the issue of finance which is never enough in any organization.”  Stella Enenche, Abuja 