When the news broke that Ibrahim Shekarau, a former governor of Kano State, has dumped the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), and returned to the All Progressives Congress (APC), the question that came to the mind of many political observers is “what happened to his credibility?” This is the same Shekarau, who, sometime this year took a mocking laugh at the APC ‘change’ mantra and President Muhammadu Buhari. SaharaReporters had quoted him as saying that the APC was confused and had been lying to Nigerians about bringing change to their living conditions. He was said to have described the “change” mantra of the party as a ruse. “When Nigerians asked: ‘When are we going to see the change we voted for?’ They were told to wait until after the swearing-in ceremony. After the swearing-in, they heard silence without change and they asked, when will this change come? The answer was until they resume office and they subsequently resumed office and nothing happened,” Shekarau said. He added that when the masses asked again when to expect the promised change, they were told to wait until the appointment of the Secretary to the Government of Federation (SGF). “After three months, the SGF was appointed and the people asked again: ‘Where is the change?’ The answer was they should wait for the change after the appointment of Chief of Staff. The masses got worried and said, please when will this change come? The answer was, until ministers are appointed. After six months, they appointed ministers,” Shekarau said mockingly. Following the appointment of ministers, the former Education minister said the APC promised that change would come when the budget was prepared and told the masses to wait for the budget. And when they got the budget, he added, Nigerians were told they would have the change after the National Assembly must have gone through the budget. “Suddenly, the National Assembly approved and the people asked again: ‘Can we see and feel the change?’ Their (APC) reply was until the President signs the budget. After he signed, there was no change, we asked. They said, the President’s ear is paining him and we should wait until he was healed,” the former governor further said. The masses, he said, were prepared to wait, and rejoiced that the President could hear well and had returned. Again, the APC did not deliver the change, shifting delivery to when the fuel subsidy was removed.  “They suddenly tripled oil price and they kept quiet and we talked. They said we should be patient that change will come. While Nigerians were waiting, they now came again that the President was sick. They said we should wait, we waited and he came back from the first trip. They said we should pray. We all secretly prayed for him, that Allah should heal him. When he returned they said we should give him time to fully recover,” Shekarau said. He alleged that the APC started playing games, saying doctors said the President should return to London, where he stayed for 103 days before returning. “We said when will the change come? They said until they drive away rats from his office. While we were hoping they would come and apologize, they came again and said the change will come when I (Buhari) return in 2019,” he mocked.  He cites ‘injustice’ in PDP as reason for his exit Shekarau defected, citing injustice by the party leadership for his decision. He was said to be bitter about the alleged lack of internal democracy in the PDP, which has resulted in several of his followers being sidelined or forced out of the PDP in Kano State. His decision was occasioned by the recent return of Rabiu Kwankwaso to the PDP and the party leadership’s decision to hand over the machinery of the state chapter of the party to him and his loyalists. For a very long time, Kano has been a battleground between the followers of Kwankwaso and those of the state governor, Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, both of whom were in the same party, APC. While he took refuge in Abuja, Shekarau had been in the state and in charge of the PDP, with his loyalists in control of affairs there. Shekarau’s defection from the PDP, perhaps, came as a shock to some political observers, having also recently declared his interest to contest the Presidential ticket of the PDP. He had recently hosted Kwankwaso, his erstwhile political opponent in the state, and some leaders of the Kano PDP at his Asokoro residence. Some observers strongly believe that the national leadership of the PDP is poorly managing the recent benefits arising from defection of many political bigwigs across the country into the umbrella association. “One of the mistakes PDP’s national leadership made was that before the defection of Senator Musa Kwankwaso and his followers from APC to PDP, the national leadership of PDP designed a template for sharing of the party’s structures in the state, without first discussing it with all stakeholders in the state.’’ One of the leaders of Kwankwassiyya, a political wing of Kwankwaso, said. “In the template, 51percent of the state’s structure was given to Senator Kwankwaso-led group, while Shekarau was given 49 percent; the party also agreed on automatic party’s tickets for all defecting members of House of Representatives and State House of Assembly – Kwankwaso’s followers. “With the template, it was obvious that Senator Musa Kwankwaso was highly favoured and expectedly, Mallam Shekarau and his group rejected the template,” the source said. The PDP national executive committee had last weekend dissolved the Mas`ud El-Jibril-led executive of the party, put in place by Shekarau and Aminu Wali, Nigeria’s former minister for foreign affairs, and replaced him with Kwankwaso`s loyalists, Rabiu Bichi, who was the secretary to the State Government in the Kwankwaso administration. The development was denounced by supporters of Aminu Wali and Ibrahim Shakarau, and they staged a solidarity protest at the party’s secretariat along Maiduguri Road in the metropolis.  Can PDP afford to lose Kano? Observers believe that PDP may be toying with its chances in 2019. According to them, what it would have benefited by courting the two chieftains appropriately, it seems to have now lost. “Had Kwankwaso and Shekarau worked together, PDP would have made a serious impact in Kano in 2019,” an analyst said. Kano State, according to the 2016 population census by National Population Commission (NPC), has a population of about 9.38million people, the most populous state in the country, even more than Lagos. Kano State is estimated to have more than three million eligible voting populations which are twice that of several states in the country. However, this statistics have been over-shadowed by report of under-age voting in recent local government election in the state and the 2015 general election. In view of this, political observers view this latest development as an indication that the APC is now enmeshed in a fierce war with the PDP over the control of Kano State, with both party’s realising how strategic the state is towards their victory in the 2015 presidential election. Analysts have also stressed that the defection of Shekarau to the APC was a calculated move by the party to regain lost ground in the state, following the recent defection of Kwankwaso who is seen to hold much political influence in the state, even more than Shekarau and the incumbent State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje. But a chieftain of the PDP, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, disclosed that Shekarau left the party because the Kano PDP structure which he had earlier controlled was given to Kwankwaso, stressing that the party was not bothered about his defection to the APC. “He left because the party structure was taken away from him. We are not bothered by his defection, but we are surprised because it is the same Shekarau who sometime ago said that he did not like Buhari; how come he is moving now to work with him? How can you be bothered with a man who has ten soldiers to go to war, when you have someone who has twenty soldiers?  Shekarau: At home with controversy Although brilliant and well exposed, Shekarau is said to find it difficult to draw a line between religion and politics. He tends to mix up everything, hence the controversy that greeted some of his moves and pronouncements when he was the governor of Kano State. As governor, he opposed polio vaccination campaigns on the allegation that they were attempts to make Moslem women infertile. This position fetched him a barrage of criticism and the World Health Organisation (WHO) screamed foul and profusely denied it. While Kano was under his watch, he created a local religious police, the ‘Hisbah Guard’, which enforced sharia law irrespective of the residents’ religions. It was considered very insensitive by many people. 