Ahead of the 2019 general election, six cabinet members of Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State have resigned their appointments in order to contest in the party’s primaries. The six aides resigned following a directive by Governor Akeredolu that all his political appointees who have obtained nomination forms for the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary for the 2019 general elections should resign from his cabinet. Governor Akeredolu had through a press statement on Friday night signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Segun Ajiboye, directed his appointees seeking elective positions to resign latest Monday, September 17, 2018. BusinessDay reports that those who have tendered their resignation letters as of Monday morning included, Gboyega Adefarati, the Commissioner for Agriculture; Donald Ojogo, Commissioner for Lands and Housing and Omowumi Olatunji, Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Welfare. Others were, Timehin Adelegbe, Commissioner for Commerce; Victor Olabimtan, Special Adviser on Rural Development and Jibayo Adeyeye, Special Adviser on Health. Olabimtan is contesting for a slot in the senate to represent Ondo North senatorial district, while the other five, Adefarati, Ojogo, Olatunji, Adelegbe and Adeyeye are vying for seats in the House of Representatives to represent Akoko South West and East , Ilaje/Ese-Odo, Akure South/North, Owo/Ose and Ondo East/West Federal Constituencies, respectively. Meanwhile, the Ondo State government has expressed his appreciation to those that resigned for their dedication and efforts in contributing to the development of the state. Yemi Olowolabi,the commissioner for Information in a chat with our correspondent said their resignation was in accordance with the law. ” It is correct. They are going to contest for Senate and House of Representatives and the law is clear if you are contesting,you should resign. ” We wish them success in the party’s primaries and also the general elections,” the commissioner said. The APC has scheduled the senatorial primaries to hold on Thursday, September 27, while the house of representatives primaries will hold on Saturday, September 29, 2018. The party in the state has been enmeshed in crisis, with two factions emerging from different state congresses. While the faction loyal to Governor Akeredolu has chosen indirect primary method as it’s way of electing candidates, that headed by Idowu Otetubi insists it will go with the direct method.  YOMI AYELESO, Akure 