The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, Adams Oshiomhole stated that the candidate of his party, Gboyega Oyetola won the Osun governorship rerun election after  striking a deal with the candidate of the Social Democratic Party, SDP Iyiola Omisore. Oshiomhole said considering the popularity and influence of Omisore and SDP in the areas where rerun was scheduled, APC has no choice but to enter in alliance with both the candidate and the party to defeat the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP candidate Ademola Adeleke. Oshiomhole who made this revelation while addressing journalists in Abuja on the outcome of the Osun governorship rerun election also said mocked PDP for been unsuccessful despite its earlier claims that it has it secured a deal with Omisore and SDP and its victory was certain. According to the APC National Chairman, “it was clear the SDP was largely in control in those areas so if you want to do a coalition so like any other party in the world if you want to do a coalition you identify their leaders who have influence in those areas and enter into negotiation. “I believe when PDP was shouting in the morning that they were going to challenge the decision to conduct a rerun, their leader Bukola Saraki along  several other PDP members went to Ife to persuade the leader of the SDP who was the candidate in the election, Senator Omisore to negotiate the possible working arrangements. “This is not a secret I am revealing. After that conversation, Senator Saraki told the world he was much much confident of winning the election after the understanding that he think he reached with Senator Omisore and leaders of the SDP. “Let me also say, recognizing the fact that Omisore and the SDP were critical in this process. Let me also say that APC decided to open a conversation with the SDP and their leadership in Osun State, I was part of that effort and we had a conversation with Senator Omisore and I was impressed by his emphasis that yes, he has lost but he believes he can still win. “We had a deal that seeks to address the primary purpose of his participation in  the process which is the governance of the state and specific policy issues that were of concern to him and the SDP in Osun state. We had robust conversation on this issues and we reached an agreement which I think healthy. “We didn’t have to negotiate about compensation or paying money to anybody. And the issues were about governance and education. We are at the eve of general elections come February next year and right now we are at the primaries. “How we can have a short term working relationship or a well structured and formalized alliance that will enable us to hold a grip of the state not just in this election but in future elections and I am happy we were able to struck a deal which had to do with specific issues that will affect the welfare and well being of the people of Osun State and so whether Saraki failed to secure a deal with the SDP, we secured  the deal with the SDP and now the APC as a governing party of the state working with SDP that really had huge influence in those areas that election was cancelled. So, combining forces together it was not strange that we won and PDP lost”, Oshiomhole boasted. He however dismissed rumours making the round that APC paid N500 million to with the promise of automatic Senatorial tickets secure Omisore support. Oshiomhole said, “we spoke and we had a deal that has do with the welfare and governance of Osun state and I was very clear, we did not go with tonnes of money because I do not have money to give to anyone. He did not ask and there was no basis for him to ask because we did not sponsor him. “Secondly, on the question of automatic ticket, that word has no meaning in the Electoral Act and our constitution which makes primaries mandatory. Even when I spoke with National Assembly Members, both Senators and Reps, it is not that I don’t know that that word automatic exists but I simply did not find it useful so if we did not use it for our sitting Senators and Reps., why will I offer it to people I do not yet know? “But that we  agreed they will have opportunities to contest for a seat under the APC platform, that is correct! Not just for Senate or House of Reps but even House of Assembly that is why I said we talked about both the immediate issues which was the Osun election but going forward and working together”, he emphasized. The APC National Chairman also told journalists that, the Minister of Communications, Adebayo Shitu was disqualified from participating in the Osun governorship primary election because his NYSC Certificate scandal while the Minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Aisha Alhassan was barred from contesting the Taraba governorship ticket because of her questionable loyalty to the APC. “Shitu admitted that he did not do the mandatory NYSC as provided for under the law and in is own judgment, his being a member of the House of Assembly in the state and now as a minister of the federal republic that these were enough sacrifices. But for us as a party we know that NYSC is a mandatory scheme. “It is not something you may elect to do or abstain from doing and my understanding of the NYSC Act is that no employer of labour is permitted to employ anyone who graduated under 30 years and who did not obtain an exemption for reasons as provided for in the NYSC Act. “So, for us, not participating in the NYSC raises very serious moral issue as well as legal issue. After interviewing him, we were convinced that….for our party, there are clear lessons we need to learn from our recent past when people…anyway, we were convinced that if he did not do NYSC, that for us was enough to disqualify him and we had to find the courage to do so. “As for the Honourable Minister of Women Affairs, she has issues that have to do with party loyalty. Our constitution is clear and it dictates that to contest elections or even hold office in the APC, you must be loyal to the party in every material concern. “From all she had said in the past and even her coments and general attitude during the screening, the NWC reviewed everything taken together and we arrived at the conclusion that she does not possess the level of loyalty that the APC requires for her to contest elections on our platform. “We made it clear when the defections happened that APC may well benefit from these defections if it helps us to be more critical in terms of who we give platform to contest elections and that there are core values that binds the APC together and they are non-negotiable”, Oshiomhole maintained.