Mohammed Ibrahim Ajia, a governorship aspirant of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara State, has declared that he remains in the opposition party because he has all it takes to become the next governor of the state. Ajia, who spoke with journalists immediately after a meeting convened by Concerned Emirate PDP Elders Forum in Ilorin at the weekend said: “I remain in PDP because I have all it takes and I know that no one else can take the (governorship) ticket other than me. I am confident and confortable. “I have checked the data of registration of voters, the highest registered voters are within my age grade. From 40 to 18, they have over 60 percent registration capacity. “Politics is a game of number, this alone is enough for me to be comfortable in going to any election. We will go into the election and I am sure, I will emerge. So, I’m calling on all PDP in Kwara State to do all they can do and rally round support for me if really they want us to succeed in 2019. “Because it is not just going to be election, it is going with the right candidate. Everywhere in the world now, we are talking about the youth and young people. So, it is our time now and I feel that PDP too would not make any mistake in supporting a youth candidate.” Speaking further, the governorship hopeful declared “I am a PDP member and I would remain a PDP member. The time I was supposed to leave the party, I never left the party when everybody was leaving because they were feeling that there would be dominance when the bigwigs of the country come into the party. But for me, I see that as a progress because their coming is to give us grand avenue to win the state. “So, for me, I am not considering not winning the primary election. I have been on the ground in this party putting things in order.” According to him, he joined the governorship race purposely to transform Kwara State, by creating wealth across the state, drive economy from the grassroots, improve infrastructure, overhaul all sectors and as well build on what has been done by past governors of the state. He lamented that the 68 year old state was blessed with human and material resources that have not been fully harnessed for the common good of the people, as he even promised to mobilise resources internally to address peculiar needs and fund capital projects for infrastructure development. Ajia, founder of Mohammed Ajia Ibrahim Foundation who has touched hundreds of lives across the state, pointed out that his blueprint would ensure that youth are positively engaged to reduce crime rate in the society. “Our mission is for a new Kwara, a Kwara where a son of nobody can become somebody, a Kwara with economy that works for everybody even the rural women, a Kwara where the local governments have infrastructure; that is what we desire by a new Kwara. “I was invited to the meeting of Concerned Emirate PDP Elders Forum headed by Oba Ajara. At the meeting, I was able to explain to them what the mission and my blueprint for a new Kwara is about and at the end of the day, elders were impressed and gave me a nod and promised to do all that it takes to support my ambition. “My concern about this state is to create wealth across the state. One of my key agenda is to ensure that the local governments have financial independence so that whatever money comes to local governments, goes to them, so that those monies can be used to develop every local government and when the development is going on in local government, the youth would be engaged and the crime would reduce. “In doing that, we are also solving insecurity. Like you know, security is also part of our agenda and also improving our infrastructure across the state and then of course, economic empowerment. We would overhaul the health sector. “The schools would become better than they are now. I have been able to review all the past administrations from 1999 till date, we have seen their performances, we have seen where they stopped, we would try to build on it. “Like you know, government is continuation. The essence of our aspiration is when you have identified where some other people stopped, it is for you to come and build on it so that we can take Kwara to the level we think it deserves. So, they were all convinced and promised to do all it takes to ensure my victory come 2019.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin  