Femi Falana, human right lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) has declared that the only way Nigeria can experience the restructuring they crave for is through the equitable redistribution of commonwealth to improve the economic wellbeing of citizens. He observed that Nigeria cannot seriously be restructured without equitable redistribution of commonwealth adding that those who have cornered the nation’s commonwealth should not be allowed to talk of restructuring in isolation. Falana pointed out that the campaign for restructuring should encompass the decentralisation and democratisation and economic powers which have been privitised by all factions of the ruling class. In particular, the struggle for fiscal federalism has to confront the control of national economy by imperialism. While speaking at the 19th Mike Okonkwo annual lecture in Lagos Wednesday, Falana stressed that since the constitution has clearly stated that the welfare and security of the people shall be the primary purpose of government, Nigerians must demand an end to a policy that allows political office holders and civil servants who constitute less than 1 percent of the population to continue to allocate 70 percent of the nation’s resources to themselves. In his lecture titled Nigeria’s Unity: Matters Arising, the senior advocate of Nigeria (SAN) opines that Nigerians should therefore be prepared to challenge the recycled neo-liberal managers of the economy who continue to insist on the dominance of market forces which have been discredited by the crisis of global capitalism. He however warned that the devotion of powers to the states from the center without the democratisation of the powers will not promote the unity of the country. “Restructuring without equitable redistribution of the common wealth will not promote unity or political stability. Unity is not an abstract phenomenon. In concrete terms, unity means the corporate existence of Nigeria”. “Since the rich are united in exploiting the national resources, the exploited poor and oppressed people should united to free themselves from poverty,” he said. He enjoined Nigerians to reject the shameful categorisation of the country as a rich with the largest concentration of poor people in the world. According to him, “It is high time that poverty was seriously attacked through the empowerment of the masses and job creation for young people”. “We must reject poverty alleviation or reduction and demand poverty eradication In addition, the recovery of stolen wealth of the nation by foreign and local thieves should be a collective battle while the fund recovered from corrupt public officers and their privies is spent on job creation and fixing hospitals and schools as well as provision of other social services”, he added. On his part, John Nwodo, chairman of the occasion said the unity of Nigeria should not be left to the ruling class adding that it should be a collective effort from all more especially the youth. He advocated institutional reforms that can attract more youth participation in the leadership to contribute to the economy. Highlights of the event are the presentation of prizes to the winners of the Mike Okonkwo national essay competition and the cutting of cake to celebrate the 73th birthday to the presiding bishop of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission (TREM).  KELECHI EWUZIE 