For the fourth time in 2018, the National Assembly is considering legislative action on the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill, which President Muhammadu Buhari had recently rejected. To this end, the National Assembly Joint Committee on INEC has commenced moves to review the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill, with a view to addressing the contentious areas raised by the President in his letter to the National Assembly. Addressing journalists on Monday, Chairman of the joint committee, Suleiman Nazif (PDP, Bauchi State) revealed that the panel would brief the Press by 11am on Tuesday. “I know that this committee is in the eye of the storm and Nigerians are desirous and expecting to hear from us. Here we are, again, trying to address the Electoral Act for the fourth time. Nigerians will recall that there was a first Electoral Act (Amendment Bill), the second and the third one. And if we pass this one it will be the fourth one. “I believe that what we are doing is in the best interest of this country. It will address all the fears and we will ensure that we equip INEC with what is necessary and what will ensure free and fair elections in 2019,” Nazif said. It would be recalled that President Buhari had declined assent to the revised versions on the bill on three different occasions in March, August and September this year, citing constitutional breaches and cross-referencing errors. With less than five months to the 2019 General Election, the amendment was intended to strengthen the electoral process, even as analysts have expressed concern over delay in altering the electoral law. In a statement on Monday, September 3, Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate) Ita Enang, said the President, in a communication to the Senate and the House of Representatives dated 30th August, 2018, stated the reasons for his decision. According to him, the President again declined assent because of some drafting issues that remained unaddressed. According to Enang, there was also an issue with the conduct of primaries by political parties and the dates they should submit names of their candidates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), pointing out that if signed into law, the electoral body would have only nine days to collate and compile lists of candidates in the 91 political parties.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 