The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the Buhari Presidency of round-tripping the N45 million contributed by a group to buy the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential nomination form for President Muhammadu Buhari. The party said President Buhari’s inability to explain the registration status, membership and source of funding of the group exposes the charade in the latest failed endorsement stunt. The PDP notes as laughable, that the Buhari Presidency does not realize that such stunts have become out-worn and cannot sway opinion in a country with citizens as enlightened as Nigerians. A statement on Wednesday by Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary, said: “Most Nigerians already know how some officials at the Buhari presidency, made up of corrupt individuals, racketeers and certificate forgers, hurriedly assembled the group and mobilised them with N45 million for the APC presidential nomination form, which was hiked to scare away other contestants. “How members of the group were settled for the stunt as well the issues and disagreements that arose from the deal are also known to many Nigerians. “What Mr. President’s handlers are hiding from him is the fact that Nigerians do not believe the falsehood that a set of individuals, facing the challenges of abysmally low purchasing power, put together a wholesome N45m to buy him a form,” he said. Describing the group as ‘shadowy’, the party spokesperson challenged the President to make public the proof of registration, membership, list of individual contributors and amount contributed by the group members. The statement adds: “We also challenge President Buhari to make public the official correspondences of the 12 million members of the Rice Farmers Association, members of the Fertilizer Producers Association and the members of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association who, he claimed, offered to buy nomination form for him. “Moreover, the PDP described as unpresidential, the outbursts credited to President Buhari against those who left the APC noting that such was an unwarranted attack on innocent Nigerians whose only offence is that they chose to abandon his derelict sinking ship, APC”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 