Damilola Adedayo is the CEO of DGWC. He held an exhibition a while ago at the Freedom Park Lagos. His exhibition was inspired by the need to change narratives, celebrate the beauty of Art from an admirable standpoint, project leading works by DGWC studios and further positioning it as one of the foremost photography outfits. His aim was to swing it closer to a sought after clientele base whilst also providing a platform for expression, networking and entertainment. According to Damilola, “The DGWC brand has evolved over the years and our brand at the time we had the exhibition was beginning to gain public consciousness and appeal so, we thought to reposition its profiling by bringing it closer to its clients, fans and the general public. At the time, our team had just concluded a five western states documentary tour and most of our works enjoyed rave reviews from art enthusiasts and critics so, we thought to compliment the review by having a public showing in form of an exhibition, word play/poetry and music.” He said. On feedback,  Dami said the build up to the exhibition was quite  overwhelming considering the level of support, excitement and expectations from his clients, friends of DGWC, fans and the general public which translated to the massive success of the exhibition itself. The attendance was encouraging as the facility was packed whilst everyone had a memorable and great time. “From feedbacks received, a large concentration of the attendees gave great commendations whilst also highlighting their commitment to support and attend subsequent edition”. On what he looks forward to, Dami  says “At the moment, we are presently doing our yearly review and repositioning as a brand so, all of our efforts are tied around ending the year on a high with creating more memorable experiences for our clients.” Asked on his love for photography and he has this to say “My Love for photography is influenced by the creativity and art of expression which is an adventure in its entirety. Also, being inspired by the beauty of storytelling, creating and preserving memories.”  Kemi Ajumobi 