Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun state has declared to replace want-away Lanre Tejuosho, a Senator who currently represents Ogun central senatorial district in the Senate in 2019 general elections, saying that the declaration run again for the Senate, would put an end to all speculations about him seeking re-election to the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Recall that Governor Amosun, who was a Senator under the People’s Democratic Party – PDP’s umbrella between 2003 and 2007, would be replacing Tejuosho who was part members of All Progressives Congress (APC) at the National Assembly that are loyal to the Senate President Bukola Saraki who defected to the PDP at the peak of mass defection sometime in July, only for Lanre Tejuosho to return to APC barely 24 hours of defection. Although, Lanre Tejuoso later apologised to the party over his earlier defection to the People’s Democratic Party in July, saying: “I apologise to our APC members  who feel offended  because I expressed myself”, the apology might not go well with Amosun who still went ahead to declare to run for Tejuosho’s. seat at the National Assembly. Making the declaration to run for the Senate after completing two-term tenure as Ogun State Governor at Ogun APC Stakeholders’ Meeting held at MITROS Hall at Ibara in Abeokuta on Wednesday, Governor Amosun said that he would not ask anybody within APC fold not to contest for the same political office, adding that any politicians,  including Tejuosho, who want to contest for the same post is free to run. “People have been speculating, don’t speculate anymore. By the benevolence of Almighty God, I am running for the Senate. Don’t speculate, if you want to run, you are free to come out and run with me”, he said. Meanwhile, the Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has settled for the consensus arrangement for the selection of candidates in the 2019 general elections, explaining that direct primaries would only be used where the consensus candidacy arrangement failed. BusinessDay reports that the decision was taken on Wednesday at the stakeholders meeting of the party held in Abeokuta as this was part of the decisions reached at the meeting were also contained in a communique issued at the end of the meeting that lasted for almost two hours. The communique read, “That the APC in Ogun State shall have a consensus primary for all elective positions in the 2019 elections. That where consensus fails, a direct primary will be used to choose a candidate for such a position.” The decision followed a motion moved by the Majority Leader of the state House of Assembly, Yinka Mafe and supported by the Chairman of  Yewa North Local Government, Kayode Abiola, just as the stakeholders later adopted the motion unanimously after a very long discussion, and later issued the communique that was read to the stakeholders present at the meeting. Earlier, Derin Adebiyi, the State Chairman of the party, noted that the meeting was in accordance with the resolution of party’s National Executive Council that state chapters of the party were to determine their mode of primaries, adding that  elders and leaders of the party at the various council areas would meet with aspirants before reaching decision on consensus candidates.  RAZAQ AYINLA, Abeokuta 