President Muhamamdu Buhari on Wednesday ordered the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris to step down the invitation of Ademola Adeleke, a serving Senator and the Peoples Democratic Party PDP, Governorship candidate in the 22nd September, 2018 Gubernatorial Election in Osun State. BusinessDay gathered from the Presidential Villa that the order followed earlier invitation sent from the force headquarters to Adeleke answer to Examination Malpractice, Criminal Conspiracy, Personation, Breach of Duty, Aiding and Abetting leveled against him. A Presidency source who pleaded for anonymity, confirmed this development to BusinessDay, adding that “ Buhari ordered that Adeleke should not be invited until after Saturday’s election” The Police invitation which was signed by the Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood, had claimed that they have established a cases of examination malpractice against the governorship candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Ademola Adekele, stressing that the federal lawmaker alongside 4 others were found to be complicit in the act. , “Examination Malpractice, Criminal Conspiracy, Personation, Breach of Duty, Aiding and Abetting against Senator Ademola Adeleke (PDP Governorship Aspirant in the 22nd September, 2018 Gubernatorial Election in Osun State) and four (4) others. Moshood statement named Sikiru Adeleke, Aregbesola Mufutau (Principal of Ojo-Aro Community Grammar School, Egbedore LGA, Osun State), Gbadamosi Thomas Ojo (School Staff responsible for the registration of candidates for NECO) and Dare Olutope (School Teacher who facilitated the commission of the crime).” as accomplices The Osun PDP flag bearer has been under intense attacks since the issue of Certificate forgery came to limelight. The invitation from the Police came on the heels of clarification by the West African Examination Council (WAEC), on Wednesday confirming that the authenticity of certificate presented by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in the Osun September 22 governorship election. The examination body had confirmed this in an affidavit before an FCT High Court, Wednesday.
The examination body said that Adeleke indeed sat for the May/June examination of the council in 1981.
The council in an affidavit deposed to by one Osindeinde Adewunmi and filed at the registry of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Court confirmed that Adeleke’s result for the Secondary School examination in May/ June 1981 was not in doubt.
The confirmation was contained in a four paragraph affidavit filed on Wednesday in compliance with the order of Justice Oathman Musa requesting the examination body to confirm whether the governorship candidate sat for the 1981 examination or not.
The affidavit deposed to by Osindeinde, Deputy Registrar/Head of School Examination Department accompanied with the ledger containing the names and results of all the candidates from number 001 to 221 who sat for the secondary school certificate examination in the said school.
The certified true copy of the ledger, however, indicated that Senator Adeleke, who is currently representing Osun West senatorial district in the Senate, sat for only English Language in the examination.
Justice Musa, had in a ruling on September 11 directed that WAEC should depose an affidavit to either deny or confirm that Adeleke sat for the examination the council conducted at Ede Muslim High School in Ede, Osun State, in 1981. But the President’s Order means that the PDP candidate can now go through the voting process on Saturday, BusinessDay gathered.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 