The need for grassroots women to participate and support the government in the eradication of corruption in Nigeria has been stressed, just women involved in the fight corruption and accountability could serve as dependable means to eradicate poverty. Limota Gorozo, Director of International Women Community Centre (IWCC), woman right  NGO in Kwara State made this known at a two-day capacity building on gender, anti-corruption and accountability programme for community coordinators in the state. According to her, much has been said on fighting corruption but women at the grassroots are not well informed nor involved in the fight against corruption. Gorozo, also the convener of the training said: “this workshop is building the capacity of women to be able to fight corruption in Nigeria, educate ourselves about corruption and how we can contribute our quota in eradicating the scourge. “The basis of the workshop was to sensitise and build the capacity of our community caregiver  that is grassroots women from 16 local government areas of the state and zonal coordinators on anticorruption and Accountability.” She added that the theme of workshop is timely in that, the word corruption has being a regular name in the policy and politics of Nigeria but the grassroots and rural communities do not know a lot about anti-corruption and accountability, that is where IWCC come in, to make a lasting impact. “We are mostly concerned about how will the participation of women affect the politics and policies of Nigeria in terms of eradicating corruption.
How do we support the government, the society and stalk holders to ensure that our country is rid of corruption. “So, we gathered here to brainstorm, deliberate and fashion out strategies to do it together as a team because collectively we can fight corruption. “We want women selling garri, pepper, groundout or vegetable in the market to know and be able to understand what corruption is all about, what is gender budget and how it affect them, understand what area do we need intervention for the development of our country. “We are going to do the community rally to sensitize all women at the 16 local government areas of the state as well as the three senatorial zones of the Kwara State. “This workshop will give participants required information and  they would have been empowered to carry the anti-corruption and accountability message to their various communities and replicate the knowledge acquired after the training.” In his submission, Aliyu Musa, one of the speakers said Corruption is beyond monetary terms but involves the use of public office trust for personal gain. Causes of corruption according to him are; Greedy, Gender Inequality, High Market Value, Poverty, Ethic and Religious Division. He identified Peaceful Protest, Education, Advocacy, Monitoring of Government Activities and Budget as strategic ways of fighting corruption. Musa while challenging women to rise up to the challenges and blow their wissle as nobody will blow it for them said: “Corruption is not limited to the government, money or nepotism. The correction of corruption begins with proper training of children in every home and involvement of fathers and mothers. The media is easily accessible at minimal to no cost when approached with courtesy and a sense of responsibility for the grassroots. The media owes every citizen the responsibility of airing their voices and taking it to the government. “Traditional rulers have been the fathers of the community from time immemorial, they have the power to control the members of the community; they also have access to government agencies.” BusinessDay reports that the workshop, organized by the IWCC in partnership with WRAPA and MAC ARTHUR Foundation had in attendance, community women leaders of different tribes in the state, namely; Baruteen, Kaiama, Bokobaru, Ibolo and others, while the NGO, representatives and the media were also part of the programme. 