Sigma Pensions Limited, one of Nigeria’s leading Pension Fund Administrators as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has donated some relief materials  to beneficiaries of late officers of the Nigerian Prison Services (NPS)
Nafisah Muhammad Buba, head business development division, North, said these relief items were to create a revenue stream for families of Nigerian Prisons Services (NPS) officers who lost their lives during service to their country.
Sigma pensions took this CSR initiative to Adamawa, Borno and Yobe state where beneficiaries were empowered with complete grinding machines and stands.
Nafisah who handed over these items to the beneficiaries said: “Sigma Pensions is doing the CSR to maintain existing relationship with (NPS) and also to give back to the host community by empowering some residents in the North East.”
“The families who we are empowering are officers who paid the ultimate price in the line of duty. These individuals lost their lives in an attempt to serve their Country and the result is that their families, the beneficiaries of the CSR, are now without their breadwinners.”
She further said Sigma Pensions did not just extend a hand to only its pensioners but also extended this gesture to the beneficiaries of other families who are not registered with Sigma pensions’ members.
She added: “The beneficiaries of this initiative are families of officers of NPS who lost their lives as a result of the Insurgency in Borno, Yobe and Adamawa state. This was an opportunity for us to be socially responsible as an organization and empower host communities around us and create a decent livelihood for families of officers who have served our country.” Sigma Pensions Limited (RC 606338) was incorporated in August 2004, with the sole objective of undertaking the business of Pension Fund Administration in Nigeria according to the Nigeria Pension Reform Act (PRA 2014) and is regulated by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Sigma Pensions currently has above 700,000 registered members. They are a High Performance team one committed to doing business the right way whilst creating exceptional value for all their stakeholders at all times. 