Ahead of the December 1 local government election in Ondo State, a faction of All Progressives Congress (APC) has tackled Chairman of the State Independent Electoral Commission (ODIEC), Yomi Dinakin for allegedly refusing to accept the list of candidates submitted to the commission, threatening a legal option. Chairman of the faction, Idowu Otetubi said he had directed the party’s lawyers to file a contempt charge against the commission for refusing to accept the list of candidates forwarded to it in compliance with an order of court which had directed that the APC’s list should be accepted for the election. Otetubi, who spoke with reporters after the stakeholders’ meeting held in Akure, the state capital said: “on the strength of the order of the court, we have submitted the list of the candidates of our party to ODIEC.” “Being an agent of the government and the few that concocted the delegate lists, they have technically avoided the list. We have written to ODIEC and the court to inform the court that its order is being disobeyed. The court will appropriately do the needful in this direction.” “Recall we approached the court to seek redress on the fraudulent delegate lists that were written by a few individuals in their rooms. We felt democracy was brazenly raped, the reason we approached the court. On the merit of our case, the court resolved that the current crops of people that are promoting themselves as party executives in our party are not known to law. “We are pleased that a valid order was granted by the court to stop the injustice and brazen shenanigans of a few elements that are out to walk down our party to disunity and ultimately, failure in the coming elections. “We have been reliably informed that the same few elements that wanted to put the APC in their pockets have perfected plans to bribe the screening committee of our party to ensure that their adopted candidates are the only aspirants that will be screened for the elections. But the party had said Otetubi and members of his faction were not known to the party in the state. Its Director of Publicity, Steve Otaloro said, “Otetubi, the leader of the gang, is a political destitute, who is being sponsored by a political figure, a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “Otetubi is said to be laying claim to the leadership of our great party in the state with the intention to confuse members of our party, especially, those vulnerable adults, to cause disruption of public peace and orderliness ahead of the coming poll. “This group that has been decimated as a result of the recent development in our party, which gave express approval to the decision of our state Chapter, led by Ade Adetimehin to conduct its primaries through the delegate system, once boasted to be controlling the majority members of our party in the state, though, they would go underground for their meetings.” 