Governor Samuel Ortom today swore in 13 special advisers with a charge on them to make positive impact on the lives of Benue citizens in the discharge of their duties. Performing the ceremony at the new banquet hall of Benue Peoples House Makurdi, Governor Ortom enjoined the advisers to be guided by the core values of his administration which include transparency, accountability, justice, fairness, reconciliation, peace and unity which would make development inevitable. He advised the new appointees to convince the people to support him by explaining the present situation of things in the state particularly the intrigues and distortion of facts and the negative activities of collaborators within and outside for cheap political mileage. The Governor noted that his administration detests impunity but would always encourage the enthronement of the rule of law and respect for rights of the people to freely choose their leaders in order to benefit from government projects and programmes. While congratulating the special advisers on their appointment, Governor Ortom said their selection was an indication of his administration’s faith in their capacity to perform and charged them to hit the ground running in the various roles that would be assigned to them. Governor Ortom assured the new appointees of support and also urged other members of the state executive council to give them the necessary cooperation in order to succeed in their new assignments. He advised people of the state against giving political coloration challenges that border on their survival especially the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law of the state. Responding on behalf of his colleagues, Bem Melladu, expressed appreciation to the Governor for finding them worthy to serve in his administration and pledged their unalloyed support for the success of the Ortom-led administration. Those sworn in include Messrs Saawuan Tarnongu, Zaye Mvendaga, Ijigah Okoh, Paul Yaji, Oko Achegbulu, Ali Otakwu and Alhaji Isa Usman. Others are Drs. Bem Melladu and Tsetim Ayargwer, Revs. Samuel Terpase, Jacob Aernyi and Joseph Ogezi as well as Barrister Jacob Ogwuche. 