Governor Mohammed Bello of Niger State and Governor Mohammed Abubakar of Bauchi state stand the risk of losing the second term tickets of their party, the All Progressives Congress, APC at this Saturday governorship primary elections. Also, Rochas Okorocha, Imo State Governor and Chairman APC Governors Forum and Abduraziz Yari, Governor of Zamfara state and Chairman Nigeria Governors forum have their interests of putting in place successors jeopardize. This as the National Working Committee, NWC of APC Tuesday approved the use of direct mode of
governorship primary elections in Niger, Bauchi, Imo, Zamfara and 14 other States. The direct mode of primaries in which all registered members of the party participate in the nomination process does not give room for the absolute control of Governors unlike indirect primaries where the delegates that vote are determined by governors. The issue of direct and indirect primaries have generated a lot of controversies in the APC, creating a sharp division between the Governors and NWC with both opting for different modes. Only last week, APC governors met in Abuja and opted mainly for indirect primaries, but their option has not been affirmed by the NWC which foisted direct primaries particularly in states where their governors are vehement on indirect primaries. The 17 states States for which APC NWC approved direct primaries are, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Anambara, Bauchi, Bayelsa,  Cross River,  Edo, Ekiti, Imo, Kano, Lagos, Niger, Ogun, Ondo, Osun, Taraba, Zamfara and Federal Capital Territory. On the other hand, NWC approved indirect primaries in 19 states including Adamawa, Benue, Borno, Delta, Ebonyi, Enugu, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Nasarawa, Oyo, Plateau, Rivers, Sokoto and Yobe. Meanwhile, NWC has banned the Adamawa State Working Committee from participating either as delegates or superintendents over the governorship primaries holding in the State. Yekini Nabena, APC Acting National Publicity Secretary said, the ban is due to the fact that the Adamawa State Working Committee was prejudiced in favour of a governorship aspirant. 