The Lekki corridor, also known as ‘New Lagos’ is, arguably, the fastest growing settlement in Africa. With its fast developing real estate market, huge construction projects and major developments, this corridor is emerging as new main-street of Africa, offering vast investment opportunities. However, the ghost of Apapa, Nigeria’s congested and gridlocked premier port city,  now hangs over that corridor. The Lekki corridor is attracting huge individual and institutional investments such as the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ), the ambitious Dangote Refinery expected to come on stream by 2019, the Lekki deep seaport, chemical and fertilizer plants, among others. About 70 companies cutting across diverse sectors of the economy are said to have signalled interest to do business within the LFTZ with many of them promising billions of dollars of investment in the corridor, which also boasts of West Africa’s biggest shopping mall.  Even at that, the Lagos State government says this is just a scratch of the surface as the zone presents limitless opportunities still to be tapped by local and foreign investors. “Lekki still remains the biggest investment corridor in Lagos”, says Adeyinka Onigbanjo, a realtor, adding, “the concentration of high networth individuals and high end business outfits in Lekki, makes it a good catchment area for investment purposes”. But concerns remain. With all these investments and potential to grow into a city with its own soul, there is no known and concrete plans at public or private sector level to provide the critical infrastructure that will drive and give those investments any meaning. So far, the only access road to Lekki, for all it represents, is the six-lane Lekki-Epe Expressway. This road is congested with cars during rush hour because there are no viable alternatives. And there are increasing fears that things will get worse in that corridor when all the big ticket projects like the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical complex as well as the Lekki Deep Sea port comes on stream within the next four years. The Dangote Refinery is a 650,000 barrels per day (bpd) oil facility, described by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as the largest in the world is billed to come on stream in 2019. “This is the largest industrial undertaking in Nigeria. Here we have seen the refinery, which is meant to refine 650,000 barrels of oil per day, which by all projection is the largest in the world.” “There is also the petro-chemical and fertilizer plant, which are also projected to be the largest in the world, and a pipeline production plant. I think it is an incredible industrial undertaking in the country and most ambitious in the continent today. It is really inspiring,” Osinbajo said during a tour of the facility. The implication of this is that the Lekki corridor is developing to be the heart of business activities in the country’s commercial capital when all these projects are completed. However, governments at the state and federal level are failing to provide the critical infrastructure that is needed to support the huge developments taking place in that corridor. Urgently needed are alternative roads, a rail network, water transportation and other social amenities to make life in that corridor match up with the development taking place. “Unless the government start now to think of putting in place critical infrastructure, especially rail transportation facilities, ahead of these projects, what I see is a recreation of another Apapa where the siege, congestion and gridlock in the present Apapa will be a child’s play”, Ruth Obih, CEO, 3Invest Limited, explained to BusinessDay. Apapa, Nigeria’s premier port city, is what it is today because of lack of appropriate infrastructure, especially rail tracks through which containers could be taken out of the ports to the warehouses. Workers, port users, motorists, businesses and residents are trapped in endless traffic every day that takes a battalion of the Nigerian army and other security agencies to control. And yet Apapa has not seen the potential development that the Lekki Corridor is about to see. Akinwunmi Ambode, Lagos State governor, estimated during a tour of the free trade zone that $6 billion has been invested in the LFTZ which sits on about 16,000 hectares of land. “You can just visualise what that means to the economy of Lagos. Direct jobs created here is 135,000 people and indirect jobs 100,000 people”, the governor said. Quite a number of individual investors are also taking position in this corridor, buying land in form of investment speculation. This is in spite of the family land ownership issue in that corridor which, according to Chike Muoguilim, CEO, MTS Properties, is quite serious. “Sometimes you talk to people you believe are the right people and tomorrow, another group says they are the one. It is not even the financial demand that matters, but the mental and emotional torture they subject you to which drains you”, he said. Besides critical infrastructure, there is also the fear that there is no planned development in the corridor even as more people move into the area. Analysts say the government could be contending with the development of urban slums if it does not take an interest in how the area develops. The long term impact may be a significant drop in property value that will leave land speculators counting their losses. Property value in Apapa has dropped by almost 50 percent as residents are fleeing and businesses are relocating. No new investment is coming into the port city at the moment. A major investor in the corridor told BusinessDay recently that their hope is that by the time the major projects in the axis starts coming on stream, the government would be forced to move in and provided the needed infrastructure to support the investment going into the zone. A coastal road that is meant to link Victoria Island and Epe has been on the drawing board for a while without any movement. Many have also wondered why the state government has not thought of a Victoria Island to Epe metro line that could ease the congestion on that axis and bring the infrastructure in line with major cities in the world. For now as development in the Lekki axis outpace the provision of social infrastructure, there is fear that Apapa is being recreated in Lekki. CHUKA UROKO 