Peter Akindeju, managing director/CEO of ICS Outsourcing Nigeria Limited, has said that outsourcing is not the same as casualisation as understood in some quarters, explaining that outsourced personnel enjoy all the benefits of permanent staff members. Akindeju, who spoke in Lagos while unveiling a new logo and name of ICS Outsourcing (Nigeria) Limited, said the organisation had come a long way in redefining the trajectory of the outsourcing industry. “We continue to explain that we do not do casualisation. Every employee outsourced is a full employee, entitled to medical insurance, contributory pension and annual leave. They also pay their taxes. All the benefits that you expect a full-time employee to enjoy is what they enjoy. They all receive full benefits,” he said. Akindeju explained that many outsourced personnel, in many instances, earned more than permanent staff members, stating that what often determined salary was the perceived value of the personnel. The CEO stated that some charlatans had infiltrated the industry, conducting the business in an unprofessional way, but added that ICS was different, having won many awards for statutory compliance. Akindeju said the 24-year-old firm had impacted the lives of over 40,000 Nigerians directly and indirectly. He said the eagle in the company’s new logo was a symbol of rebirth and renewal as the eagle often re-grew its feathers and talons in order to fly high and catch its foods. “There is a lesson in that for every organisation and business entity. It is important to renew or rebrand ourselves from time to time in order to remain relevant and valuable to our customers. “Secondly, the time is ripe for us to deliberately distinguish ourselves from the pack. As we move into the future, it is important for us to clear every possible doubt about who we are and what we represent. “You will find that our new brand depicts a ‘new contemporary us’. It also shows that our core has not changed. We hold firmly to our core-values. These values have seen us through the last 24 years and we intend to continue to stay true to them. However, we are b, positioning ourselves into the future. This is the New ICS.” He said over the years, the firm had been able to outsource for a number of financial institutions, manufacturing companies, Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCGs) and hospitality firms, among others.  ODINAKA ANUDU 