Aderemi Aaron-Anthony Atayero, as the fourth substantive Vice-Chancellor, Covenant University, has among other responsibilities, the role of driving the vision of the proprietor of this citadel of higher learning. In this interview with KELECHII EWUZIE, he shares some of the mandates on how to revolutionise private university education. Excerpts: What are the key drivers of academic growth in Covenant University? Covenant is blessed with a dynamic Chancellor and Chairman of the Board of Regents in the person of David Oyedepo who provides focused strategic leadership to the University together with members of the Board. We also have a crop of committed faculty and staff who have imbibed the seven core values of the University. Besides, our campus is endowed with world-class infrastructural facilities conducive to innovative teaching, research and recreation for faculty, staff and students. Also, the drive for growth emanates from the compelling nature of its vision, mission, and departure philosophy. The vision of the university is to be a leading World-Class Christian Mission University, committed to raising a new generation of leaders in all fields of Human endeavour;  and the mission is to create knowledge and restore the dignity of the black man via a Human Development and Total Man Concept driven curriculum employing innovative, leading edge, teaching and learning methods, research and professional services that promote integrated, life-applicable, life-transforming education relevant to the context of Science, Technology and Human Capacity Building. Arising from these are: •Custom-built programmes that develops the total man—spirit, soul, and body. •Serene, safe, secure, pleasant, and empowering ICT driven teaching and learning environment. •Robust international linkages with top-ranked global institutions. •Pedagogy focused on graduating Job Creators rather than employment seekers. There is a common perception that private universities are very expensive, yet they offer little academic benefits to Nigeria. What is your take on this? I do not agree with this perception of private universities. In fact, the leadership of the regulatory agency of university education in Nigeria are of the view that the future of higher education in Nigeria lies with private universities. Apart from the endorsement of the quality education which private university offers, discerning employers of labour approach private universities for recruitment of their graduates. For instance, at Covenant, feedback from employers about our graduates validates the high quality of education we provide; we have continued to receive request for recruitment of our graduates because of the excellent performance of Covenant graduates in their employment. I believe that it is the same with other private universities. But you will agree with me that excellent quality comes at a cost and if private universities are operating without government subvention, the fees charged would be relatively higher than that of public schools being funded from the common or public treasury. It may interest you to know that private universities were excluded from accessing the TETFUND by law. One of the major targets of Covenant University is to positively impact the Nigerian education system. How successful have you been in this regard, considering the quality assurance and funding challenges that university education system still grapples with in the country? Covenant’s success at positively impacting the Nigerian education system is evident. Today, the University has become a reference point for university education in Nigeria and Africa.  For instance, the university has been adjudged by Elsevier’s Scival as number one globally in 26 research fields and number two in seven others. Recently, Times Higher Education rated Covenant as number one university in multidisciplinary research output in Nigeria. In addition, Covenant has satisfied the ranking requirements for Times Higher Education ranking of World Universities and we expect to be among the universities that will be listed in the next ranking of world universities by September 2018. Further to these, there were several departure policies that the university established at inception, such as non-award of pass degree and entrepreneurial education studies, which has been adopted by the National Universities Commission. The NUC continues to recommend Covenant’s model of entrepreneurial education to Nigerian universities. Similarly, Covenant introduced some custom-built programmes into its curriculum at inception in addition to the BMAS courses of the NUC. Presently, the NUC is considering a review of its BMAS to enable universities have more leverage to include their own unique custom-built courses in their curriculum. This development would among other things enhance the uniqueness of private universities and facilitate turnout of robust graduates who would be solution providers. What are the major achievements that Covenant University has recorded since inception? To the glory of God, Covenant have consistently received local and international recognitions and awards, which are indicative of the University’s achievements. In terms of research, the University, through the Covenant University Centre for Research, Innovation and Discovery (CUCRID), has established 21 active research clusters with several patents issued by NOTAP. Also, Seventy-five (75) members of our faculty were listed among the top 10 Nigerian authors in various subject areas, according to a recent computation by Elsevier’s SciVal. As for teaching, all our programmes are accredited by the National Universities Commission and their respective professional bodies.  Many world-class universities and centres of excellence are collaborating with us, which attest to the quality of our delivery. Covenant was recently selected as a Centre of Excellence for execution of the African Development Bank (AfDB) Jobs for Youth Africa initiative. This is a 10-year programme aimed at equipping youths across Africa with skills needed to secure ICT related employment and businesses. The programme is expected to create over 9 million jobs, train 234,000 youths and establish 130 ICT Centres of Excellence in Africa. Also, the University is in collaboration with MIT as one of the higher institution members of Abdul Lateef Jameel World Education Lab (J-WEL). Through this collaboration, we are able to achieve redesigned education systems, new curriculum, improved teaching and learning modalities, development of top faculty and high impact research, and graduate students who are confident and empowered problem solvers. What can prospective undergraduates and post graduate students expect from Covenant University going forward? In line with our vision to raise a new generation of leaders, we have established a curriculum and quality assurance processes that ensure that we turn out a total graduate who is mentally resourceful, intellectually reinforced, enterprisingly self-dependent, futuristically visionary, and responsibility sensitive to the changes demanded for the leadership role or dominion nature he is made for. These are life-applicable and life-transforming education experiences prospective Covenant students should expect. As an experienced university administrator, what is your leadership style like? As an institution, Covenant is on a mission to birth a revolution in Nigeria’s education landscape. In line with this mission, it is our vision to be listed among the top ten universities in the world by 2022. To accomplish this, I have engaged transformational leadership style to disrupt the status quo and engender the required changes in our faculty and staff as well as our processes. Occasionally, difficult decisions have to be taken and I encourage the flow of innovative ideas from the bottom to the top. Where do you see Covenant University as a private institution in the next five years? In the short term, (i.e. by 2022) Covenant would have emerged as one of the top ten Universities in the world. This will signpost the fulfilment of Vision 10:2022. Our ReCITe agenda is aimed at having Covenant listed among the top ten universities in the world, be a predominantly research Institution and become the model for new private Higher Education Institutions. What are your views about the education sector in Nigeria today? The importance of the education sector in our national development aspirations cannot be over stressed. The Nigerian budget for education is less than 10% while in Ghana it is approximately 30%. Presently, Nigeria has both problems of access and quality. Ironically, Ghana makes about $1bn annually from educational tourists from Nigeria. You cannot get much from a venture that you have not invested in. At a time in Nigeria, our education system began to experience several challenges. The demand for university education is increasing without commensurate increase in funding and infrastructure. Consequently, the quality of graduates from our universities has been called to question as some multinational companies give preference to graduates from foreign universities in their staff recruitment.  Over 1.6 million candidates registered for the 2018 UTME and the carrying capacity of the existing universities is grossly inadequate to accommodate this army of prospective students. Government, in its wisdom allowed private universities to come in to expand access and improve quality. Since the emergence of private universities, the number of admitted students have increased, new programmes that are relevant to our development aspirations have been introduced, and quality have also improved due to the engagement of ICT in teaching and learning, robust curriculums, and established quality control mechanisms. However, Government has a lot to do in addressing the challenges facing the establishment of private universities, their efficient management, development, and growth. We should not forget that private universities came on board because of gaps and decay in the public institutions. Therefore, mitigating their challenges is synonymous to solving the problem of the entire sector. The solutions to the socio-political and economic problems in Nigeria lie in quality and sustainable education. I boldly state that any investment in the education sector is an investment in the future of Nigeria. Quality and sustainable education has the potential to create employment, improve wellness, and create a well-informed or politically-informed citizenry. Therefore, I want to appeal that Government should declare a state of emergency in this sector and devise a developmental plan that will address and remedy the problem of access and quality within a specified period. There is need for massive infrastructural development in this sector. 