Economic growth (or lack of it) is stepping up to be perhaps the most important single factor in both Nigeria and South Africa as the continent’s largest economies head to crucial elections next year.
Fresh data show South Africa dipped by 0.7 percent quarter on quarter (Q/Q) into an economic recession this week the first time since 2009, as major sectors in the economy contracted.
While in Nigeria, the economy is wobbling with growth forecasts being revised rapidly downwards amidst rising unemployment especially among the country’s youth population.
Latest Nigerian GDP reports showed that the economy is growing at a decelerating rate when compared to the quarters preceding it. GDP grew at 1.50 percent however lower than 1.95 percent in Q1 2018 and 2.11 percent in Q4 2017.
“Despite the slow growth in Nigeria GDP, I do not see a recession threat on the economy as full year GDP will be about 1.7 percent,” Bismarck Rewane, CEO of economics consulting firm Financial Derivatives, explained.
Nigeria’s economic management and the government’s approach to dealing with economic issues especially what appears to be a surge in regulatory attack on the private sector has raised concern that the APC led administration is driving a wedge between it and business leaders.
Recently, the Central Bank imposed a fine of $8.12 billion on MTN Nigeria and a total of N5.87 billion on four banks on the basis of alleged illegal repatriation of funds to South Africa. In addition, the attorney general of the federation billed MTN Nigeria $2 billion as tax arrears relating to importation of foreign equipment and payment to foreign suppliers over the last 10 years.
Bismark added, “Without FDI in the economy, there will not be capital formation and this will definitely affect economic growth and development.”
BusinessDay analysis also revealed that the nation’s bourse has been largely affected by massive sell offs experienced since the first quarter of the year in contrast to other pre-election years. The All share index as at yesterday declined 8.77 percent YTD.
Understandably, among the youths there is rising concern about the failure to create jobs and with the population growing faster than GDP numbers, Nigeria is witnessing a new wave of emigration especially to Canada.
The unemployment rate stood at 18.8 percent as at Q3 2017, according to the NBS.
Likewise, South Africa’S ruling party seems to have deeper issues. South Africa’s ruling party Wednesday expressed grave concern about the party losing support of the people during the election after the economy plunged into a recession in the second quarter.
The African National Congress is also worried that the recession could trigger further credit-rating downgrades, the party’s head of economic policy, Enoch Godongwana, told reporters in Johannesburg on Wednesday.
Africa’s most-industrialized economy contracted in the second quarter, taking it into its first recession since 2009. That complicates the task of President Cyril Ramaphosa, who took over the ANC at a time when the ruling party’s support slipped to a record low of 54.5 percent in 2016 municipal elections that saw it lose control of Johannesburg, the economic hub, and other major cities to opposition coalitions.
Ramaphosa has to balance the ANC’s quest to retain its majority in a vote next year with pledges to get the economy back on track and attract $100 billion of investment in the next five years. The party’s Treasurer-General Paul Mashatile will undertake an investor roadshow in the U.S. next week, Godongwana said.
The “Ramaphoria” that buoyed the markets and the public at large after Ramaphosa engineered Jacob Zuma’s ouster as president in February has long since faded and the rand fell to its weakest level in more than two years after the recession news.
The ANC will start to tighten control over policy implementation because it’s been a key constraint for economic growth, Godongwana said.
That includes government making a long-awaited announcement on the allocation of spectrum to mobile-phone operators by the end of October, he said. 