Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari, Abba Kyari, Friday visited the survivors of the two aircrafts that crashed on the Katampe hills in Abuja, on Friday, at a Military hospital, were the officers are receiving medical attention. One of the Doctors who spoke to the chief of Staff disclosed that the survivors were in good conditions and recovering fast after the incident. This is just as the Nigerian Air Force revealed that it has constituted a high powered team to investigate the cause of the air crash. “It is just to stabilize, no neck injury. Tomorrow to do test. 11am” Abba Kyari who was accompanied on the visit by the Chief of Air Staff, Sadique Abubakar, top government officials, including military officers from the Air Force, commiserated with the Pilots. He disclosed that the visit was at the instance of President Muhammadu Buhari who is current attending the United Nations General Assembly,
“ I wish you quick recovery. The President said we should come and see you and wish you well, he is fully aware, he has been informed about what happened. We are proud of your service to your country” Also speaking on the incident, the Chief of Air Staff, Abubakar, described the incident as “ very unfortunate” adding that “ it is the tragic nature of our job” “Well I think that is the tragic nature of our job. As combat pilot sometimes things terrible happen and this is one of those days. “These officers have been rehearsing for the 58th anniversary of their country, everybody was full of enthusiasm, excited to be part of the celebration, unfortunately we had this incident this afternoon” “we have set up a board of enquiry to clearly understand what really happened. This was supposed to the last rehearsal before the actual flying on the 1st of October.” It is very unfortunate that we lost one of them, but we are also consoled by the fact that we have two of the pilots here who are on stable condition, they have been visited by the Chief of Staff and I have also visited them “Like I said this is something that has to do with the profession of flying combat aircraft and sometimes you can’t avoid these things from happening” The Nigerian Air Force earlier confirmed that one of its officers had died as a result of injuries received from the crash arising from collision of two of its aircraft at Katampe in Abuja. The two jets belonging to the Nigerian Air Force(NAF), rehearsing for Nigeria’s 58th Independence anniversary, had collided along Katampe hills, in Abuja, while conducting a routine air display. The NAF and other arms of the Nigerian military are currently engaged in last minute preparations, rehearsing to showcase its strength at the nation’s 58th independence day celebration. The incidence was confirmed by Director of Public Relations and Information, Ibikunle Daramola, an Air Commodore
M
in a statement issued in Abuja, Daramola had initially confirmed that “no live was lost” ” I wish confirm an air incident involving 2 Nigerian Air Force aircraft taking part in the rehearsals for the 58th Independence Day Celebrations. Thankfully no lives were lost. Details will be communicated later.” But latest reports coming from the Nigerian Air force confirmed that “one of the pilots rescued from the plane mishap has died” According to the Director of Public Relations and Information, Ibikunle Daramola, “the pilot died shortly after  they  were rescued by a  parachute.” “It is with a heavy heart that I regretfully announce that one of the pilots who successfully ejected from one of the F-7Ni aircraft that crashed earlier today has passed on. May his soul RIP”., he said. 