Kogi is under threats of flooding as 10 of the 21 local government areas in the state are said to be currently under water. Governor Yahaya Bello, who stated this while briefing state House Correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, said already the state has opened 33 camps for internally Displaced Persons ( IDPs) in the state. Bello who noted that the State had experience this periodically, noted that “In 2012, we were worst hit. We are praying that the situation will not exceed that this year. We are normally proactive to sensitize the people and evacuate them to high ground”. “We have created over 33 camps in Kogi State. As I speak with you, between nine to ten local governments are under water, you can imagine the pressure on our resources”.
“So, we are doing our best in collaboration with federal agencies and security agencies to make sure that we evacuate them to high grounds, IDP camps and provide security to them and relief materials including medicals” Bello who was at the Presidential Villa, to brief the President on situation in the State, said the State is worst hit, being the confluence state.
“we are worst hit and I needed to come and present the report to himself myself, even though I sincerely appreciate Mr President for deploying relevant agencies like NEMA and all the security agencies to come to our aid.
“As I speak to you, NEMA is on their way to Lokoja to access the level of damage and we received substantial amount of relief materials so far, it is not enough, I need to present the report to him as well and also to tell him about the security of the state and how we are doing.
“We are doing very well and I thank all the security agencies who have been assisting us to make sure we curb insecurity in the state. Do these are the issues that brought me to come and explain to Mr. President. Speaking on the 2019 general election, Bello assured that the state will vote overwhelmingly for President Buhari.
Bello assured that he will double the votes the President got in 2015, in 2019, adding “ it is going to double that of 2015.”
“In my own state, I can assure you, take my words, we are going to have all the twenty five House of Assembly members, all the nine House of Representatives members and all the three Senators for APC in this 2019 election. “We did it in all other states and in my state you can see in the last by-election the gap when the election was conducted in 2015 between the APC winner and the PDP was just about 7,000, but in this last by-election, we doubled the gap, so that is an indication. “By my style of leadership in Kogi State, we met Kogi State House of Assembly, APC in minority, we have overwhelming majority today, we have less than 85,000 registered in Kogi State for APC, as at today we have over a million membership in the state.
“Yesterday (Sunday) we had a decamping rally where SDP state chapter collapsed, ADP, ADC, PDP majority of them including Kwamkwasiya, they burnt their cap yesterday, they drove away the SDP horse yesterday. So that is the movement and it is across the nation not only in Kogi state. When reminded that some people had boasted on Facebook that the President will go in the next nine months, Bello urged APC supporters to jettison such speculations. “I think there is a polling unit in the Facebook, so they cast their votes in the Facebook, on ground I can assure you of total victory.” 