Over the years, political offices in Nigeria are known to exclusively belong to politicians who have the financial muscle to bankroll their electoral expenses. It is not certain anything has changed from that practice. Given the increasing cost of Expression of interest and Nomination forms of major political parties in the country, it appears that political positions are not for the poor, no matter their leadership competences. This also accounts for the reason the clamouring for generational power shift may take long to materialize.  In May this year, President Muhammadu Buhari signed into law the #NotTooYoungToRun bill, sponsored by youths. The law makes it possible for the youth to seek elective positions without inhibitions. But it is not just about signing the bill. The President’s party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), was to seal the fate of aspiring youths when it rolled out unbelievable range of charges for nomination forms, which observers said are impossible for the youth to provide.  The outrageous costs of the forms elicited a barrage of criticism even from aspirants within the party. The party had sold its form for the presidential race for N45million, while the main opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), fixed its price at N12million.  Reacting to the shock and unbelief the development generated, the APC said the high cost was because it would not want to use public funds to conduct its election.  Observers have said that neither N45million nor N12million was too cheap for the youth to muster in a society where youth unemployment is endemic.  While addressing journalists early in the year, shortly after the formation of the Nigeria Intervention Movement (NIM), Olisa Agbakoba, a former president of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), noted that the major challenge facing the youth in their quest for generational power shift was finance.  Agbakoba had announced that NIM was going to do something different, to raise money to prosecute its project of ensuring that youths take over the reins of power from the older generation.  He had announced that the group had opened an online register for interested members of society to join the Movement, saying that if all Nigerians who are disenchanted at the goings-on in the nation’s political arena could contribute just N100 each, it would go a long way to sponsoring a candidate to win the 2019 presidential election.  That method of contribution, he described as crowd-funding. This, he also explained would reduce the pressure on whoever that may emerge as the preferred candidate of the people. It is yet to be determined how much has been generated since the idea was floated.  Some younger aspirants for various positions have since embraced the crowd-funding option; some of them are said to have generated a lot of money so far, from that source. Fela Durotoye, who recently emerged the candidate of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), is said to have generated a lot from this source.  Omeleye Sowore, a human rights activist, pro-democracy campaigner and founder of online news agency, Sahara Reporters, is said to have also adopted the crowd-funding method of campaign fundraising.  Sowore, who recently reneged on the outcome of the alliance where Durotoye emerged as the consensus candidate of Presidential Aspirants Coming Together (PACT), insists he is still in the race. He announced that “TakeItBackMovement and the African Action Congress Party (AAC) party were still in the race.  Kingsley Moghalu, a former deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), strongly believes that the masses should show commitment in the effort to effect the generational power change. He is also an advocate of crowd-funding as a way of racing substantial funds to prosecute the project.  The presidential candidate of Young Progressive Party (YPP), was also among those who entered into the alliance that adopted Durotoye as a consensus candidate, but like Sowore, he also backed out a few hours after the emergence of the ANN candidate.  How popular is crowd-funding in Nigeria? Although crowd-funding has been described as a concept whose time has come in Nigeria given the unwillingness of moneybags to voluntarily exit the stage and the need to retire the geriatric from power, some observers say that it will take a long time for the Nigerian populace to embrace it.  “In many countries outside Nigeria this has come to stay. People invest in a candidate they believe in, not for personal gain, but for the good of society. It is not enough for the electorate to wait until the Election Day to cast their votes, they must take part in electoral processes. By the time they wait till the day of election, it becomes too late to make the necessary change because the moneybags would have already compromised the process, making it impossible for voters’ votes to count”, Aaron Ogundipe, a Data analyst, said.  Patricia Okon, a Master’s degree holder in International Politics, believes that it is the mindset of Nigerians and the loss of confidence in politicians that make crowd-funding a suspicious option.  “Here it is believed that politics is a lucrative venture and that anybody going into it must have got a lot of money. The usual thinking is, ‘Ah, how can I contribute to someone who has a lot of money?’ So, people don’t see the larger picture. If you are telling them it is in their own interest ultimately, they would tell you to go tell that to the marines. It has become part of us to expect money from politicians at election period, so to see a politician come to you asking you to contribute to his election funding, they don’t get it; it does not resonate with them,” Ms Okon said.  “A situation where people deliberately go into election to get some grants for themselves, how then would you take seriously those who are calling for crowd-funding? The idea in itself is great, but the problem is the intention behind it. We see people declare for election, but from the word ‘go’ they know their intentions are not genuine,” she added.  According to her, “The behaviour of typical Nigerians to forget the electorate as soon as they get into office does not help the issue of crowd-funding. People see politicians whom they voted into power turn into another thing; from the harmless lamb they were during campaign to dangerous lions and hyenas when they get to office. So, people do not see why they should be part of sponsorship of ‘ungrateful politicians’. I think this is basically the reason the concept is not receiving the kind of attention it should, given the economic situation of the country right now.”  Desmond Okolo, a university don, said the insincerity of politicians may have made it difficult for Nigerians to believe what they say.  “Over the years, the average Nigerian politician has been proven to be inconsistent, covenant breaker and liar. How do I mean? You know you can never trust a Nigerian politician. What he says to you in the morning is different from what he says at noon, in the evening and at night, on a given issue. Forget about those who now hide under generational power shift to promise all manner of goodies. Can we say we have never had youths in public offices since 1999, what was their achievement? For me, it is not about age, it is about mindset; it is about integrity and readiness to say No to negative influence,” Okolo said.  According to him, “Now, I am not very sure how popular any of the seemingly young people is, who are campaigning based on the need for generational power shift. How many of them are ready to openly declare how much they have raked in through the crowd-funding method? What if they fail to win the election, would they not move on without seeking the views of those who contributed to the fund, what should be done with the money; would they not count it as their own booty? These are the issues. Until our politicians learn to play clean, skepticism will continue to trail their intentions, no matter how noble.”  Natasha Akpoti, a senatorial aspirant for Kogi Central, in an exclusive interview with BusinessDay, however, said that crowd-funding is a concept whose time has come in the country.  Akpoti said that some individuals and groups had already started to send some materials that would assist in her campaign.  “I can tell you that I have already been given three buses for my campaign by a group outside my state. Some gave phones and sim cards. You see, when people know that you are going to properly represent them in government, they would spare nothing to assist you. They would go all out; they would go with you to any length. Some of us do not have the resources for the campaigns, but we have what it takes to represent our people well, and that’s what they have seen in us, hence their support,” Akpoti said.  