Last year the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) certified two Nigerian airports- Lagos and Abuja, fit on safety and security measures, thus becoming the first country in West and Central Africa with two certified airports. The certification is in line with requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Annex 14, and part 12 of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulations on safety of air navigation. The primary objective of the global air navigation plan is to achieve a safe, efficient and environmentally friendly global air transport system through the deployment of harmonised air navigation facilities. Before the certification, Airport Council International (ACI) guided the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) on the provision of facilities and equipment at the two airports in accordance with recommended practices, in order to meet international standards. A team from the ACI worked tirelessly with a committee made up of officials of NCAA and FAAN, especially on the airside in the areas of security and safety. It was after the stipulated conditions were met that the NCAA, in accordance with the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) regulations, certified the two airports as meeting safety and securitystandards. The certification enhanced the ratings of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja in Africa, as the Lagos airport, which is the fifth busiest airport is projected to become a major hub in West and Central Africa. On Monday, a six-man team from Airport Excellence (APEX), an arm of Airport Council International (ACI) commenced security and safety inspections of facilities and equipment at the MMIA, Lagos to determine its level of compliance to international best practices. The team, which was led by Brahim Lakhlili has begun inspecting the airside, apron, tarmac and the perimeter fences of the airport to know its level of compliance, open items and how they could be closed. The team is expected in the airport for a weeklong programme and training of personnel, while it would also move to the NAIA, Abuja next week for the second phase of the exercise. In pursuit of promoting safer airport operations and co-operation between the ICAO, aviation stakeholders and airports worldwide, ACI developed the APEX Programmes, which currently includes APEX in Safety and APEX in Security. The programme is based on ICAO standards, national regulations and ACI best practices. The APEX Programme combines the mandate for regulatory compliance with day-to-day operational needs to maximize operational efficiency and safety and/or security standards. Moreover, APEX reviews are tailored to the individual needs of airports and APEX Reports propose effective and targeted solutions. APEX. Speaking with journalists at the Lagos Airport, Usman Sadiq, director of security services, FAAN, said that it was not an audit exercise, but self-review to know the extent of compliance to international standards by the airport. Sadiq explained that the team was at the airport not for only correction, but about assistance where necessary to the airport and FAAN, stressing that the team would also look at the agency’s facilities manpower at various locations, perimeter fences and others that had to do with security and ways to improve on them. He added: “The industry has a lot to gain from the exercise. In fact, we feel happy when we see such organisations in our country because they make us stand on our toes. They make us see areas where we lack facilities and how to improve such areas and you will agree with me, we are trying to be the best in Africa and eventually in the world. “So, such constant visits, auditing of our concerns is a welcome development. They look at our airside, equipment, facilitation and a lot of things as regards security and safety in the system. “Security is very key to every development. Without security there is no development and without development, there can be no security. That’s the fact and we know areas that we are lacking and we know that we are striving to make improve on those areas. The Federal Government is doing its best and FAAN too is doing its best to constantly improve on its facilities.” Also speaking at the event, Victoria Shin-Aba, the airport manager, South West, said the management was prepared for the exercise. She said it wasn’t the first time the MMIA management would be working with APEX, recalling that it worked with the team in 2015 towards the certification of MMIA in 2017 by the NCAA. She posited that FAAN had got to a stage where it had to comply with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) safety and security recommendations. Lakhlili, the team leader, explained that APEX was a peer review programme with the airport security and safety as its cardinal point. He said the team would bring its experience to bear in charting a way forward for Nigeria in the area of security and safety. “It is a learning process and of course we will try to see whether there are areas to improve and we will as well try to pick some areas to replicate with other airports. We are not here to audit the agency, but here to work in collaboration with our colleagues and to see what we can improve in the system.” Other members of the team were Jamel Dridi, Mostafa Jbara, Rejeev Lolibeharee, Michael Deleney and Precious Khoza. IFEOMA OKEKE 