Presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Sule Lamido has attributed the increasing spate of killings and crimes in the country to the deteriorating quality of governance. Speaking with journalists on Monday in Abuja after his meeting with the Forum of Southern and Middlebelt leaders, the former Jigawa State Governor stated that “the culture of governance is deteriorating because of absence of justice which should be the anchor of governance but it is not in Nigeria anymore”. The PDP chieftain met with the Forum at the Abuja residence of elder statesman, Edwin Clark. According to the presidential aspirant, “This government is trying to bury the contributions of our founding fathers, integrity and honesty are not new in our vocabulary. Before Buhari there was integrity, there was Tafawa Balewa, Obafemi Awolowo, Aminu Kano, Azikiwe, these are people of honour and integrity. He has never for once paid tributes to our founding fathers”. He lamented that President Muhammadu Buhari still remained President even after breaching the constitution and his oaths of office by openly declaring that he would favour those who voted for him. “More than anything, we are going through a period of injustice. In other climes he (the President) will be impeached because he said he will work in favour of where he got 95 percent and do less where he got five percent. “What is happening now is because this country is sick, we are looking for justice. We want a Nigeria where everybody will feel a sense of belonging, not nepotism anymore,” Lamido added. Earlier, President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigo, John Nwodo, who spoke on behalf of the Southern and Middlebelt leaders forum, said: “Our people are deeply upset by the state of affairs in the country. Our country is at a crossroads where leadership is critical
So we have invited you to here what you have for Nigeria. “We seek restructuring of Nigeria to address teething problems confronting us We seeks answers to how your policies will address all these”.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 