As part of measures to enhance security in the renewed communal boundary dispute between Ebonyi and Cross River States, the military has delivered Combat Motorbikes to access difficult terrains and remote areas. The Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen.Tukur Buratai who presented the motorbikes in an event attended by the representatives of the communities said the gesture would help to accelerate peace in the two states. The Chief of army staff who was represented in the event by the GOC commanding the 82 division Enugu, Major General Emmanuel Kabul said that the combat motor bike would help the troops to penetrate the areas where the four wheel drive could not reach. Major Kabul explained that the Chief of Army staff provided the resources for the purchase of the motor bike to ensure that Soldiers maintain Peace in the two communities until the time the conflict would be resolved. He regretted that on several occasions, military troops have been attacked by members of the communities for coming to keep Peace stressing that there are no reason why the soldiers become the enemy of the people they protect. The GOC stated that the soldiers would decisively and professionally protect themselves when attacked or ambushed and urged the warring communities not to see the soldiers as enemies but to cooperate with them in order to end the lingering crisis. The Deputy Governor of Ebonyi state, Dr Eric Kelechi Igwe said that Ebonyi State government has demonstrated faith and resilience that the security agencies would handle the the communal crisis and restore Peace to the warring communities. Dr Igwe also said that the army has done so much to deserve the support of the two states governments and pledged the commitment of Ebonyi state to give the military all the necessary support it needs in the Peace building process. Also speaking,the representative of the Cross River state Governor, the Commissioner for Local Government, Mr John Ula said that the two states would expedite action to ensure that the National Boundary Commission do the needful by demarcating the boundary for peace to return. He also said that Cross River state was appreciative of the initiative of the Chief of army Staff and urged the warring communities to reciprocate the kind gesture of the military and that of the state governments. The highlight of the occasion was the official commissioning and presentation of the combat motor bikes and handling them over to the riders in maintenance of peace and order in the area.  Jacob Ogodo Abakaliki 