A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Dipo Olorunniru, has said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Muhammadu Buhari administration had failed Nigerians because they were not prepared for governance before they won the 2015 general election. Olorunniru, who is representing Amuwo-Odofin Constituency One in the Assembly, added that the Buhari administration had failed because its cabinet was constituted with ministers who had nothing to offer the country, stressing that the administration was bereft of policies and agenda that would transform the fortunes of the country. Olorunniru, who is the only PDP lawmaker in the Lagos State House of Assembly and who refused to defect to the ruling APC out of the five elected on the platform of the PDP into the Assembly in 2015 general election, stressed that it was wrong for the administration to prioritise corruption when there were several burning issues bedeviling the country. He further dismissed the second term bid of the president, while advocating for younger and intellectual leader. “Even the blind knows that this administration has failed Nigerians, the president and the APC did not have agenda or policy to implement when they win, because they were just after winning elections,” he said. “You can see that they have failed; because the calibre of people in the cabinet is not right, he is only after corruption, and they are not visible. It is the opposition that is being targeted. And he wants a second term, what we need is younger leaders who have something to offer the country,” Olorunniru said. On the allegation that most states’ Assemblies in the country were rubber-stamp of the executives, the lawmaker noted it was wrong for Nigerians to always expect disagreement between the executive and lawmakers, stressing that the country would stagnate, while meaningful development would not be achieved if the two arms of government could not work together. “I think Nigerians should learn and not expect the lawmakers and the executive to always be at logger heads because they were elected to make laws, work together for the good of the people and if this situation is different we may not achieve much,” he explained. He said that he refused to defect to the APC in spite of promise made to him, because he was loyal to his party and the people of his constituency who elected him on the platform of the PDP, adding that the party had learnt its lessons and would win the 2019 general election.  Iniobong Iwok