 More reactions have trailed Wednesday’s invasion of the Senate by thugs suspected to be loyalists of the suspended senator representing Delta Central Senatorial District, Ovie Omo-Agege. In his reaction, the National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, has said the perpetrators must be tried for treason. Speaking on Thursday at the emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the PDP in Abuja, Secondus described the incident as a coup on Nigeria’s democracy. On Wednesday, thugs suspected to be loyalists of the suspended All Progressives Congress (APC) senator had invaded the hallowed chambers of the Senate, disrupted plenary and stole the mace in broad daylight. Secondus said: “What happened in the Senate yesterday (Wednesday) is a clear assault on democracy, a coup against the legislature and should not only be condemned but those responsible should be tried for treason as demanded by the law. “Herdsmen brazenly invade our homes and farms, rape, maim and kill our people daily, and thugs do the same in our parliament yet we have a government. “This obnoxious development has placed enormous challenge on us as the main opposition party to up our game and quickly rescue this country from the appalling APC administration. “Majority of Nigerians who are disillusioned about the state of affairs in the last three years, are excited that we are trying to get it right as we remain the last hope for our democracy”. Also speaking at the event, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu who presided over plenary when the incident occurred, regretted that the development could have serious impact on foreign direct investments into the country. In veiled reference to the accusation by former Defence Minister, Theophilus Danjuma, that the military was colluding with armed militia to wreck havoc on the people of Taraba State, he said there was collusion between the invaders and security agents which led to successful theft of the Senate mace. “It was not just a coincidence but collusion. It will send a wrong signal to foreign investors that if such could happen in such within the Three Arms Zone,” the lawmaker said. On the 2019 general elections, he said consultations are ongoing with former presidents and political heavyweights to form an alliance with the aim of presenting a formidable force against the governing APC. “Consultations with various groups is useful and in coming days, a broader platform will be raised to wrestle power from APC. “Former presidents and former leaders of Nigeria are in unsion to make sure that come 2019 a fresh and new government is formed for the interest of our nation,” he said.   OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja