Patients trying to access medical care services in federal health institutions across Nigeria are facing the risk of death due to lack of adequate care as the ongoing indefinite nationwide strike embarked upon by the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) cripples medical services. The strike, which enters its fifth day today, is already taking its toll as BDSUNDAY during a visit to major health institutions in Lagos, including Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Ebute-Meta, saw many patients waiting endlessly with no one ready to attend to them. Although some of the health workers turned up at work, they did not attend to patients in the different wards visited. However, some resident doctors and consultants were seen in some wards where patients wore long faces. John Obiora, a patient at FMC Ebute-Meta, lamented the impact of the strike on patients, saying it has left patients without adequate care, thereby exposing those in critical conditions to the risk of avoidable death. “Government must act fast before the patients start going home – or dying,” he said. Adebola Adetunji, another patient, called on the Federal Government to look into the situation as soon as possible and ensure that JOHESU’s demands were met. “Health workers going on strike in this age calls for concern. I think that the government should please respond to them before this will get out of hand. How can these doctors cope with this situation?” Adetunji said. The Federal Government on Thursday threatened to invoke provisions of the relevant labour laws, especially Section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act, Cap.T8, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, against the striking workers. In a statement through the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the government said it had met almost all the demands of these unions on issues such as the payment of promotion arrears, salary shortfalls among others as per the agreement reached on September 30, 2017. “The Federal Government therefore wishes to appeal to JOHESU to reconsider its position in view of the immeasurable consequences of its action on sick patients in hospitals across the nation,” it said. But the workers who are demanding improved salary package seem unperturbed by the threat as they vowed to continue with the strike until their demand is met. Johnson Shaba, chairman of JOHESU, LUTH Chapter, said efforts made through several committees to get the Federal Government to implement agreements reached with them had yielded not result. Shaba said that in spite of the 30-working day ultimatum given to the Federal Government, it had yet to satisfactorily address the pending issues. “We are also not happy about the strike but we are fighting for our rights and demand of service. Other health professionals went on strike and they were attended to within two weeks. I believe there should not be any partial or biased mind in the health sector because we all should be treated as one,” Shaba said. “So, we plead with Nigerians to bear with us as we were left with no other option than to take our destiny in our hands,” he said. Olufemi Fasanmade, chairman of the Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC) at LUTH, said that the management of the hospital was aware that members of JOHESU were on strike, and therefore was making use of available manpower to help out patients. “There are many patients still in the wards and we are managing to care for them with the limited staff we have. We regret any inconveniences the strike will have on our esteemed patients,” he said.  JOSHUA BASSEY