Mohammed Buhari, the president of Nigeria, in his visit to the United States today, told Donald Trump, the U.S president, that his administration is stabilising the insurgency issues in the country. Buhari appreciated Trump for the immense help and assistance the U.S was rendering to Africa’s largest economy, in terms of equipment, manpower, training and aircraft. “Security is the main issue and we are grateful that the U.S agreed to give us the aircraft and for the physical presence of the U.S in training, we are very grateful,” Muhammadu Buhari said. The discussion by the two presidents circled around fighting terrorism in Nigeria, as the US president said “we have developed a very good relationship as we have met before.” The U.S president observed that there have been very serious problems with Christians been killed in Nigeria and stated that they (Nigeria and the U.S) shall be working on the problem, as they cannot afford to have more killings. Buhari however stressed that the herdsmen are from across borders, as the typical Nigerian herdsmen never trade anything more than cattle and a stick. “The problem of the cattle herders is a very long historical thing and as such, the state must be concerned as the Nigerian herders never trade anything more than a cutlass and occasionally a stick, to cut down foliage to give to their animals, rather than carrying an AK47.I do not think people should under estimate what happened in Libya during the 43 years reign of then president, as people were recruited and trained to handle weapons. “With the demise of the former president of Libya, they moved to their countries and to their regions and they carried with them the experience they had in using weapons and this is aggravating the situation,” Buhari said. Buhari is first president from Sub-Sahara Africa and the second African leader to be received by Trump’s White House administration, after Egyptian President, Abdel Fattah Sisi. Buhari’s visit comes after Trump met German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Friday and French President Emmanuel Macron last week to discuss the contentious Iran nuclear deal and biting trade sanctions.  Endurance Okafor