The National Orientation Agency (NOA) has said that the menace of political thuggery in Nigeria has to be checkmated in order to have a more sustainable democracy that will really be a government of the people, for the people and by the people. Ngozi Uduma, the NOA director, Abia State, who made the observation during a one-day workshop on security, sensitisation and reorientation programme against political thuggery, kidnapping, drug addiction and the need for mutual coexistence in Nigeria, lamented that activities of thugs had caused Nigerian public to lose confidence in politics, adding that the public had no confidence in the significant value of political parties and no longer had the belief  that elections were meant to choose representatives in a way that would be acceptable. Uduma noted that political thuggery in society, especially during political campaigns had caused Nigeria a lot of set back as a result of unnecessary killings and destruction of property worth billions of naira, adding, “the desperation for political power and the feebleness of laws and law enforcement institutions have given an open licence to all who wish to manipulate the process for whatever end.”
According to her, “Politics in Nigeria has been described as a do-or-die affair. The politicians use any means to get into power and this is usually made manifest during election periods when various forms of election malpractices are the order of the day. There is election rigging, stealing of ballot boxes, intimidation and threat to opponents, assault, kidnappings, assassinations, harassment, maiming and killings. Politicians recruit, train and empower thugs to harass, intimidate and victimise perceived political opponent.”
“The important reality of politics in Nigeria is that of increasing depreciation of the process. It has transformed from the pursuit of self-determination to the less dignified struggle for regional/ethnical advantage in the full glare of a disadvantaged and alienated people. We have politics of opportunism and personal aggrandisement today in Nigeria”. The Abia NOA boss observed that youths were always the victim of thuggery as it had been widely believed that the act would normally be executed by the youth through the backing and sponsorship of their masters behind the scene.
Uduma, who counseled the youths to shun being used as thugs during elections, pointed out that “Most of the world’s developmental strategies largely depend on the youth. This societal segment is believed to assist in producing sustained economy and stable democracy of a nation. It is therefore, very important that the society could produce a qualitative youth to make that a reality.
“Youths are believed to be the most valuable asset for engendering societal development. They are the engines and pillars upon which every human society depends. Human history indicated how the youths served to depend and develop their various societies which always promote and give to the society economic balance, political stability and social justice. Youths contribute much towards the social, economic, political development and defense of their societies”.
In his speech, Sydney Imobhio, national president Southern Nigeria and Middle Belt Forum for Development (SNMBFD) counselled Nigerians to strive and preach unity rather than disintegration, as it is not what the country needs at this time. Awa Udensi (Rtrd captain), special adviser to Abia Governor on Security Matters, in his remarks called for a collaborative efforts between parents, traditional rulers, community leaders, the Church, school heads in the fight against thuggery and the need for mutual coexistence in Nigeria.
Representatives of the Nigerian Police, FRSC, NDLEA, Nigerian Prisons, NYSC, Nigerian Peace Corps, educational institutions, political parties, and members of SNMBFD, among others were present at the programme.  UDOKA AGWU, UMUAHIA.