The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC has cleared the way for the current National Chairman of the Party, John Oyegun to seek re-election as his tenure expired in June.
Also, the party has opened the door for Adams Oshimole, immediate past Governor of Edo State, Clement Ibiri, Former Cross River State Governor and Ogbonnaya Onu, Minister of Science and Technology to contest for the party’s National Chairman position.
This is as the party on Monday inaugurated the national convention committee headed by Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jegawa State and the committee has announced that the sale of forms for all elective offices commences Wednesday.
APC had at it last National Executive Committee, NEC Meeting attended by President Muhammadu Buhari who is the leader of the party rescinded the earlier decision that extended the tenure of party officials at all levels and ordered for national convention, state, local government and ward congresses to conduct fresh election
However, NEC granted waivers to the Oyegun led NWC and other executives of the party at all levels to re-contest their position if they so wish at Congresses and convention.
Since then and even prior to the last NEC, Oyegun whom many accused of conniving with some governors to elongate his tenure has been interested in seeking a second term though he has not formally declared. This is the same for Oshimole, Onuh and Ibiri.
Speaking at the inauguration of the convention committee at APC Secretariat Abuja, Oyegun told members that they have, “the tough task within the shortest possible time of producing a convention that is free, fair, and one that provides a clean level playing ground for anyone that wants to aspire for any position.”
Oyegun recalled that despite induced controversies, APC has always conducted conventions and primaries that are model for political parties in Nigeria and beyond and charged members not only to repeat the same feat but consolidate on the set standard with view to harmonising discordant interests.
“Our last presidential primaries/ convention was by all accounts one of best ever held anywhere. You are supposed to repeat the feat. The other convention was watched worldwide and this one given the controversies that preceded it, it is also a must watch that is why I said you have a big task before you,” Oyegun affirmed.
Responding, the APC convention Chairman, Badaru promised on behalf of members to conduct a credible convention that would be accepted by all interests and make the party more united.
“I want to assure you on behalf of all members that we will not fail this party. We will do all it takes to come out stronger and united after the convention.
“God is with us and God will support us because of our clear vision and love for the nation. Most of us you see in APC are moved by the desire to rescue Nigeria from total collapse,” Badaru stated.
Speaking with journalists shortly after the inauguration, Badaru announced that the convention will hold in Abuja and dispelled earlier rumours that it was going to be held in Lagos.  JAMES KWEN