Kunle Sulayman, a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Kwara State has said the party is determined to change the change for better, as he appealed to Nigerians to collect their Permanent Voters Card to enable them exercise their civic responsibility in the 2019 general election. The chieftain equally clarified that the apology made by Uche Secondus, PDP National Chairman, was impunity in the party and not lack of performance. Sulayman, in an interview with BDSUNDAY in Ilorin, assured that, “We are determined to `Change the Change` particularly in Kwara and we are appealing to Nigerians to join the train to change the change for better”. Speaking on the apology made by Secondus, he said that Secondus was neither talking about service, nor performance. “He was talking about the impunity in PDP that was responsible for our loss; impunity in the sense that the party imposed candidates on members. For instance, Jonathan was imposed on Nigerians. He completed the tenure of Yar`Adua for two years and he then had four years. “He wanted to have another four years that will make it 10 years, but constitution says no president should be sworn in more than twice which he had done and that was when Nigerians protested,” he explained. According to him, internal dynamics of the party which was manipulated to impose certain candidates on people was what he apologised for. “PDP realised that we only needed to re-strategise and appeal to those who got annoyed, call them back and then rebuild our party to be able to win by 2019, that was what informed actions by party leaders,” he said. Sulayman expressed the optimism that more defectors would soon join PDP, saying; “we have solidified and no longer in crisis.” “APC has been campaigning for PDP by their lack of performance and inability to take care of the masses; so, Nigerians have seen the difference between PDP government and the APC government. This is the time for them to change the change, I appeal to the people to collect their PVC because is their rights,” he added. In his reaction to the $1billion security fund to procure weapons, Sulayman said when election is approaching, they will try to create avenue to make money to run the election. “Which war are we fighting when they told us they have technically defeated Boko Haram and we are not fighting herdsmen? “Which war are we anticipating that we need to acquire weapons? There is no more war, they have defeated Boko Haram unless they are telling Nigerians again that we have not defeated the terrorists and let us hear them say so. If President Buhari is signing anything, he is signing money to be diverted for 2019 election,” he said.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin