The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Lagos State chapter has vowed that it was prepared to capture the state in the 2019 general election. Lagos State Chairman of the party, Moshood Salvador, stated this at the party’s General Assembly held at the Yard event centre in Oregun, Ikeja, noting that PDP in the state was now better repositioned, while the renewed unity among its members and the increasing membership strength would work in its favour. Salvador accused the Akinwunmi Ambode administration and the All Progressives Congress (APC) government in the state of failing Lagosians, while implementing anti-people policies aimed to further impoverish the people. Salvador, who was a former member of the House of Representatives, charged members of the party to acquire their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) to enable them vote out the APC. The state chairman promised a level playing field for all aspirants in the 2019 general election, while adding that no candidate in the party would be extorted. “You can see that the crowd here is not rented, it is the members of our party and it shows we are working. Our membership form is there, more people are joining us and our members would keep increasing. “We shall win the race, we shall win Lagos; because we are more prepared to do that now. I would never collect money from any aspirant, rather I would use my money to work for you, I have given you my words and make sure you work for our victory,” he said. “Go and collect your PVC and let use it to remove this government that said outside that our people are lazy and that the killers of our people are Gaddaffi men; APC has failed Nigerians let vote them out. “Look at Lagos with huge resources, what is Ambode doing with the money? Look at refuse everywhere, yet Ambode said they are spending 70 million to clear refuse. Look at the Badagry road they have collected the money and refused to do the work. For the land use charge; we would not allow them increase it by a kobo, these policies are meant to impoverished Lagosian,” Salvador said. Also speaking at the event, former Minister of Works and Housing and a Chieftain of the party in the state, Adeseye Ogunlewe, said the party would do all it can to capture the state, while offering to spearhead the campaign for all candidates of the party in the state. Former governorship candidate of the party, Jimi Agbaje, said Lagos PDP was ready and now better positioned to consolidate on its success in the state at the 2015 general election, adding that Lagosians,, especially at the grassroots were tired of the APC. A leader of the party in the state, Aduke Maina, reaffirmed the party’s confidence in the Moshood Salvador-led exco to lead the party to success at the next year’s general election, while boasting that the PDP would win Lagos State in the 2019 election. The General Assembly, which was attended by members of the party across the state, was also attended by state Chairman of the PDP in Borno State, Zana Gazama; Kogi State Chairman, Engineer Widu Sanni; Ondo State Chairman Clement Fagboyele, and the Federal Capital Territiry (FCT) Abuja, Chairman, Ibrahim Dikko. Also present was a member of the party in the House of Representatives, Rita Orji, and the only PDP member in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Dipo Olorunrinu, among some other leaders.  Iniobong Iwok