Davos is shorthand for the World Economic Forum (WEF), which in its original guise was founded in 1971 by German business professor Klaus Schwab as a way for European corporate leaders to learn from their US counterparts. Political leaders started attending later in the 1970s, and since then it has morphed into an annual jamboree where the global elite – joined by intellectuals, activists, celebrities and sometimes protestors — debate the world’s problems. Among the 2,500 delegates and 70 world leaders, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the first of the week’s keynote speakers on Tuesday. Every European leader of note is in attendance – including Emmanuel Macron of France, Germany’s Angela Merkel, Britain’s Theresa May and Paolo Gentiloni of Italy. There is a large contingent from Africa, including Emmerson Mnangagwa, the successor to Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe, plus a smattering from Latin America such as the presidents of Brazil and Argentina. Influential thinkers such as Israeli “Homo Deus” author Yuval Noah Harari and Harvard psychologist Steven Pinker are on hand along with Pakistani Nobel Peace Prize winner Malala Yousafzai and celebrities Elton John, Cate Blanchett and the Bollywood baddie Shah Rukh Khan. But top billing has to go to US President Donald Trump, who is due to close the conference with a speechon Friday. His mantra of “America First” is the antithesis of the liberal world order cherished by the Davos crowd – free trade, open borders and respect for cultural diversity. The overarching theme this year is “Creating a Shared Future in a Fractured World”. From breakfast seminars to midnight drinks, via film screenings and morning sessions of meditation and yoga, every day has been packed. Panel discussions featured leaders from the worlds of business, finance, science and the arts. Many of the panels revolved around the theme of the “Fourth Industrial Revolution”, how to equip today’s workers to survive the advent of automation and artificial intelligence. Others looked at geostrategic challenges in the era of Trump, Brexit and identity politics; how to decipher fact from fiction in the age of “fake news”; exploiting machine intelligence in health, and combatting “the next pandemic”; risks to high-flying financial markets; making economic growth inclusive; and the future of food.  Adapted from the Times of India. 