The World Economic Forum’s 48th Annual Meeting has opened in Davos Switzerland with more than three thousand leaders from around the world gathering in a collaborative effort to shape the global, regional and industry agendas, with a commitment to improve the state of the world.  The meeting brings together governments, international organizations, business, civil society, cultural leaders, media, experts and the young generation, at the highest level and in representative ways.  After introductory remarks by the Forum’s Founder and Executive Chairman, Klaus Schwab, and a welcome by President of the Swiss Confederation, Alain Berset, the Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy, India’s Narendra Modi took the stage.  He pleaded with participants at the forum to find solutions to challenges created by terrorism around the world and without being specific the Indian leader condemned the growing attack on globalisation.  India will be the world’s fastest growing major economy in 2018, according to IMF’s world economic update and its GDP has been growing at around 7% per year since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took office back in 2014, and next year India’s economy will be one-third bigger than when he came to power. However, major economic and social challenges – such as income inequality, gender disparity and extreme levels of pollution – persist and some here are asking if India is ready to capitalize on this rapid economic growth and assume its role as a major global player? Pope Francis helped open the 48th World Economic Forum Annual Meeting with a special message, passionately calling on participants to overcome fragmentation between states and institutions and work together to facilitate more inclusive approaches in an increasingly globalized world. In a speech delivered by Cardinal Peter Kodwo Appiah Turkson, Prefect of the Dicastery for Promoting Integral Human Development, Pope Francis said: “It is vital to safeguard the dignity of the human person, in particular by offering to all people real opportunities for integral human development and by implementing economic policies that favour the family.” Echoing the theme of the meeting, Creating a Shared Future in a Fractured World, the Pope said, “The entrepreneurial world has enormous potential to effect substantial change by increasing the quality of productivity, creating new jobs, respecting labour laws, fighting against … corruption and promoting social justice.”  He continued: “If we want a more secure future, one that encourages the prosperity of all, then it is necessary to keep the compass continually oriented towards ‘true north’,” represented by authentic values.  Frank Aigbogun, Davos 