The leadership crises engulfing All Progressive Congress ( APC) took a new dimension on Friday as President Muhammadu Buhari summoned the embattled Chairman, John Odigie-Oyegun, to the Presidential Villa. The meeting between the President and the APC Chairman was however brief and was conducted behind closed doors. The meeting was not unconnected with allegations leveled against the APC Chairman by Ahmed Tinubu that the Chairman was frustrating the reconciliation efforts initiated by the President himself. Recall, that the Tinubu led reconciliation plan was initiated by President Muhammadu Buhari as part of efforts to bring All the warring factions together ahead of the 2019 general election. The reconciliation has however not achieved much even as the party has remained fractured with each block sticking to their position and so far with none accepting to shift ground. But APC governors had on Thursday after a closed door meeting with President Buhari unanimously affirmed that they have confidence in the leadership of the national Chairman of the party, John Odigie-Oyegun clearing him of wrong doings over the allegations of blocking reconciliation efforts of Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The APC governors had after the closed-door meeting with President Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, cleared Oyegun of any wrongdoing, adding that “one size fits all will not work in all the states where some erring members need to be disciplined.” He made the statement in apparent reference to recommendations by the Tinubu reconciliation efforts as he commented on the allegations by Bola Tinubu to the President that the party’s national Chairman was allegedly frustrating his reconciliation efforts. Bello said that the APC governors had passed a vote of confidence in the leadership of Chief Oyegun. He said, “We the governors and majority of APC members have confidence ‎in our national chairman Chief John Oyegun, we also believe in President by appointing Bola Tinubu, our leader to reconcile some aggrieved members of our party. The outcome of the meeting between the President and the APC Chairman was however not made public as Oyegun did not speak with State House Correspondents after the meeting.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja