Africa’s mobile Ecosystem is projected to increase enough to add up to $150 billion to the economy by 2022, the latest edition of the GSMA Mobile Economy report has revealed. The new report forecasts that there will be 634 million unique mobile subscribers across Sub-Saharan Africa by 2025, increasing mobile subscription to more than half of the population. The addition of subscribers is equivalent to 52 percent of the population, a significant rise from 44 percent recorded at the end of 2017.
An addition of $150 billion to the value of Sub-Saharan Africa’s economy by 2022 is equivalent to almost 8 percent of regional GDP.
“For many citizens across the region, particularly those living in rural areas, a mobile phone is not just a communications device but also the primary channel for getting online and a vital tool for improving their lives,” says John Giusti, Chief Regulatory Officer at the GSMA.
According to Giusti, “More needs to be done to extend connectivity to the remaining unconnected and underserved populations across Sub-Sahara Africa, but this will require a focus on long-term industry sustainability that can only be achieved through investment-friendly policies and supportive regulatory frameworks.”
With countries like Nigeria being classified as a ‘Mobile First’ nation, analysts say that although Sub-Saharan Africa has been the world’s fastest-growing mobile region in recent years, subscriber growth is slowing as the industry faces of affordability and a youthful population.
Research findings reveal that the region’s current mobile penetration rate (44 percent of the population) is significantly below the global average of 66 percent.
Further, according to the World Bank, around 40 percent of the population in the region are under the age of 16, a demographic segment that has significantly lower levels of mobile ownership than the population as a whole.
However, despite these challenges, smartphone adoption continues to increase rapidly thanks to lower device costs, which is serving to accelerate migration to 3G/4G mobile broadband networks and services.
The GSMA report predicts that mobile broadband will account for 87 percent of mobile connections in Sub-Saharan Africa by 2025, up from 38 percent in 2017.
Moreover, nearly 300 million new subscribers are expected to use their devices to access mobile internet services over the next seven years.
In 2017, mobile technologies and services accounted for 7.1 per cent of GDP across Sub-Saharan Africa, a contribution that amounted to $110 billion of economic value added. By 2022, the region’s mobile economy is forecast to generate more than $150 billion (7.9 per cent of GDP) of economic value as countries continue to benefit from improvements in productivity and efficiency, particularly due to the increase in mobile internet adoption.
The region’s mobile ecosystem also supported 3 million jobs in 2017 and contributed almost $14 billion to the funding of the public sector in the form of general taxation as well as sector-specific levies on the consumption of mobile services.
In Nigeria, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) which is the telecommunications industry regulator, remitted N1333.4 billion to the consolidated revenue fund of the federal government in 2017.
The National Bureau of Statistics report confirmed that the Nigerian telecommunications sector, during the second quarter of 2017, contributed 9.5 percent to the GDP in contrast to 9.1 per cent contribution in the first quarter of the year.
“Sub-Saharan Africa’s mobile industry is showing strong progress in achieving the targets of the SDGs, predominantly through increased connectivity and access to information, but also through the delivery of services, such as mobile money, that increase productivity, improve well-being and reduce poverty,” says John Giusti.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson