In the last couple of years, Uyo, the capital of Akwa Ibom State in the Niger Delta region of the country has emerged as a modern city with a good network of roads as one of its major unique selling points.  This enviable status did not happen overnight. It has been a result of consistent planning, investment and implementation of physical and urban renewal programmes and policies observers say. This has seen Uyo being transformed into one of the most preferred destinations due to its excellent road infrastructure. Prior to 1999 when the country returned to democratic rule, the master plan of the city had been developed by Obong Victor Attah, one-time president of Nigerian Institute of Architects who later became the governor between 1999 and 2007. This helped in no small measure in developing the bird’s eye view of the kind of roads that would be developed as well as the design for the three ring roads that the city has become to be identified with. So When Obong Attah eventually became governor, it was not difficult for him to implement the master plan he had designed and thus began the process of developing the road network of the city. Seen as the father of modern Akwa Ibom State, it was Attah who built the airport road, began the construction of the airport itself and set the stage for opening up Akwa Ibom to the outside world as it were. It was his administration that also started the construction of the Olusegun Obasanjo way which was then known as Abak road  and successfully laid the foundation for the emergence of Uyo as a city that cannot be ignored in terms of good roads. Though his administration adopted the philosophy of patronising local civil engineering contractors in road construction as a way of building their capacities, finally it paid off handsomely  though with much criticism. Enter former governor Godswill Akpabiowho  came on board between 2007 and 2015, his programme of uncommon transformation brought a new verve to the development of roads with bridges and flyovers that had never been seen in the city before.  With the money that was available due to the high prices of crude oil, it was not difficult for the Akpabio administration to hire five star contractors as he would say and was able to turn the city into a concentric circle of roads and flyovers. Akpabio had served under Obong Attah as commissioner spending more than seven years as a member of the state executive council and using the opportunity to map out strategies on how the city and its network of roads would be developed. So within one year of his governorship, Akpabio was able to turn the city into a delight starting first with a major highway linking the state capital to the Calabar-Itu highway. It must be noted here that prior to that moment, business travellers to Lagos, Abuja or outside the state  had to travel to Calabar to board a flight. And travelling on a deplorable road  from Uyo on the tortuous Calabar-Itu highway which has  not been constructed despite repeated promises by the federal government was never a pleasant experience. So by first constructing the link road, Akpabio began his aggressive pursuit of road development and by the time left office in 2015, Akwa Ibom had become known for quality roads and the transformation that had been the trademark of his administration. In same vein,  enter governor Udom Emmanuel in 2015 whose five point agenda including infrastructure consolidation,  he did not only continue with the construction of roads. He took it to another level by doing both inter local government roads and inner city roads. In fact, many had thought that the development of physical infrastructure would no longer take the centre stage. How wrong they were. First, his administration saw to the completion of the abandoned Eket-Ibeno, a major road leading to the operational base of ExxonMobil in Ibeno, thus opening up the coasting axis of the state and  putting paid to the controversy that surrounded the road. Apart from development roads linking one local government area to the other, the Udom administration has turned its attention to the construction of internal roads within the city to the extent that areas that were never considered accessible have now been turned into cosmopolitan areas with good internal roads. For instance, the area around Efiong Udo Akpan street, behind Wellington Bassey way, the heart of the city, the area has now been fully transformed with good roads. As the Udom administration marked its third anniversary, it seems to have acquitted itself in the area of roads and infrastructure creditably pointing out that it has completed over 700 kilometres of roads, 17 bridges and done the second runway at Ibom international airport as well as  completed the state secretariat annex housing the ministry of works and other departments. What appears to have worked significantly well for the Udom administration in this sector seems to  be the commissioner in charge of the ministry of works, Ephraim Inyang who has been able to translate the vision of the state government in the area of roads construction into reality. The commissioner virtually traverses all the nooks and crannies of the state supervising the construction of roads in all the three senatorial districts of the state, from faraway places like Ini local government to the coastal areas of Oron and Ibeno, he has been the driving force behind the vision of the governor in the development of the basic physical infrastructure like roads and bridges. And so the new face of Uyo as a city with good roads can also be due to the hard work and drive of the commissioner. Inyang believes  the state is not only constructing roads but doing roads  meant to link economic centres and help in the evacuation of goods and services from the hinterland so that all the local government areas could be linked good roads. Inokootong Emmanuel, a businessman in Uyo says the contribution of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) with Nsima Ekere, an indigene of the state as the managing director has also helped in more ways to turning the city into a modern city. Though there have been issues on the need for better coordination between the commission and the state government, nothing seems  lost in  getting the best for the state. “The construction of road is a continuous process, from one administration to another, I would like to score Uyo high as having one of the best road networks in the south south region of the country,’’ he said. His remarks appear to support a view expressed by a recent visitor  to one of the states in the south east of the country who came back screaming that, roads in that state capital are like hell, saying that motorists go tough time commuting daily in the city centre. The beauty of the good road network in Uyo is that it is possible for people to commute from many local government areas to the state capital on well paved and tarred roads. A recent visitor to Uyo who came to attend  saocial event while driving from the airport to the city did not fail to be amazed by the array of roads connecting one part of the town to the other and particularly the beauty of the airport road which is complete with street lights. “This city has good roads,’’ he said. From the quality of roads in Uyo, it seems  Uyo residents and indeed the people of Akwa Ibom State are taking for granted what others in other  state capitals mostly those in the oil producing region of the country are experiencing in terms of bad roads. While there are some who would want the state government to play down on the construction of roads and focus on other sectors, it is highly unlikely that this would be the case as several other major road projects including the dual carriage way from Uyo to Eket and another from Etinan to Ndon Eyo linking the east west road are already set for completion.  There is also an ongoing road project from the airport road to Oron. If one were to take his mind back to 1986 about three decades ago when Uyo was the state capital of the then Cross River State, one can appreciate the rapid transformation that has taken place in the city. Though it is said that Rome was not built in a day, the transformation of roads in the last few years had been quite noticeable. Thanks to good road network.