Nigerian bobsled pilot, Seun Adigun continues to break new boundaries and set standards after leading three other team members to represent the African country at the recently held Winter, Olympics in Pyeongchang County, South Korea. Adigun who also recently bagged a doctorate degree in Chiropractic has now been officially recognized as the first African, both in the male or female categories to compete in both the winter and summer Olympics. Ayako Itoof the International Olympic Committee (IOC), in a message noted that The Olympic Study Centre has confirmed that Seun Adigun is the first ever African athlete to compete in both Summer and Winter Olympic Games. It would be noted the African star athlete and bobsled driver is among the only two athletes to be so recognized at the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics. The second being of Pita Taufatofua of Tonga, a taekwondoistturned skier. Adigun and Taufatofua now join a list of elite Summer and Winter Olympians catalogued by online reference site, Wikipedia. Adigun who represented Nigeria in Athletics at the Summer Olympics and Nigeria in Bobsleigh in 2018 at the Winter Olympics expressed her delight at being bestowed with such a prestigious accolade. With a strong support system of her management team, Lagos-based pan-African agency, Temple Management Company, she restates her commitment to African excellence. She said, “This is a real-life example of what it means to represent African excellence and a true testament to the fact that impossible is nothing. This milestone is truly a blessing”. Discussing her preparations for the 2012 Summer Games, Adigun remarked, “My preparations during athletics was driven by the desire to prove to myself that I was capable of competing with the best in the world in the women’s 100 meter hurdles. I wanted to look back on my career as a hurdler and know that despite any limitations or health obstacles, I genuinely gave all that I had to achieving the highest level of competition”. Adigun further disclosed how she prepared for the winter Games, “The preparations for the winter Games was different in the sense that my passion was driven by my self-less intentions to create positive representation for Nigerians and Africans, globally. That passion was accompanied by several thoughts of fear and anxiety, but it was overcome by God’s grace and the support of everyone who played a part in the journey, no matter how big or small”. Adigun added that she dedicated myself to creating a legacy that would inspire generations, eternally, and whatever accolades came along the way would be celebrated as blessings.  Anthony Nlebem