The news, Thursday, by Nigeria’s Vice President Yemi Osinbajo that the Federal Government was set, within the next two weeks, to grant an approval for the full rehabilitation of failed sections of the Mile 2-Tincan-Apapa road, was not only welcoming but also relieving. Osinbajo dropped the hint while meeting with stakeholders at the Nigerian Navy Shipping (NNS) Beecroft in Apapa, which had in attendance representatives of businesses and residents of Apapa, unions and various interest groups within the maritime and transportation sectors of the economy. It was the second time Osinbajo would be in Lagos in the quest for an enduring solution to the traffic logjam in Apapa and environs. And if the vice president never knew the dimension of the problem faced in Apapa, and therefore expected to be told, and perhaps, solutions proffered, he indeed had a full dose of it at the meeting However, whether the government goes ahead to turn this promise into action within the set timeframe, as residents and businesses in Apapa wait breathlessly, is another ball game entirely. Amid the various issues raised by stakeholders at the meeting, one area of failing by the Federal Government that stood out was collapsed infrastructure in Apapa, and particularly, the Mile 2-Tincan axis of Apapa-Oshodi expressway. In the view of experts, infrastructure around the country shouldn’t ordinarily pose as much a challenge if there’s been an in-built mechanism that allows for their routine maintenance and integrity test. According to Olaniyi Oluseun, Ogunseye David, Wale Olagunju in their paper titled “significance of structural integrity assessment in the sustenance of Nigeria’s infrastructural development”, Nigeria has made important strides towards improving its infrastructural sector of the economy, spending billions of naira yearly on the construction of infrastructure but with little or provision at all for operations and maintenance. This clearly captures the level of deterioration and infrastructural decay now witnessed in Apapa and its environs. Like similar other infrastructure all over the country, including airports, refineries, stadia and iconic national monument such as the National Arts Theatre; the roads, bridges and rail lines running in and out of the port community had been for decades without the required maintenance. To the extent the major artery to the port; Apapa-Oshodi expressway, particularly the Coconut-Tincan axis has totally collapsed, speaks to the failure of the government in infrastructural maintenance. “Roads fail in Nigeria because government at all levels concentrate majorly on construction without putting a strategy in place for their maintenance. “These huge investments are allowed to deteriorate without any visible strategy, leading to the observed state of Nigerian roads today,” they maintained, adding that structural integrity, a crucial component of the engineering work, is essential in infrastructural sustenance. According to these experts, structural integrity refers to the soundness of design and construction, including safety and workability. Structural integrity is an essential component of all structural engineering buildings, bridges, dams and other structures that play important roles in daily grind of the society. Stakeholders in Apapa believe that beyond the excitement of the news of the expected reconstruction of Apapa-Oshodi expressway, which approval should come within the next two weeks, as promised by Vice President Osinbajo, there is the need for the Federal Government to consciously and deliberately work out a maintenance mechanism that will see qualified engineers routinely returning to the road, and indeed other infrastructure within and around Apapa, host community of Nigeria’s premier and most utilised ports, from where government makes fortunes in revenues. Consistent inspections of the bridges, the roads, and other infrastructure, according to the stakeholders must be carried out to ensure that they possess adequate structural integrity given the pressure exerted on such infrastructure by the hordes of heavy duty vehicles plying on a daily basis.  JOSHUA BASSEY  