Concerned with the current infrastructural challenges facing developing cities in the country, Vodacom Business Nigeria, has called on the Federal and State Governments, to look into digitalising the economy and society as pathway to creating a sustainable nation. Research shows that Nigeria, which is one of the fastest developing countries in the world and the most populous nation in the Sub-Sahara Africa continent with an estimated 198 million people – according to the National Population Commission (NPC), is facing serious infrastructural challenges. Therefore, matching population growth with infrastructural development has become an issue of great concern across the country, and finding solutions to this growing concern, was the focus of the discourse at the recently concluded Information Communications Technology and Telecommunications (ICTEL) Expo, 2018 organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The event, which recently took place in Lagos recently, brought together various stakeholders within the Information Communications Technology (ICT) industry to deliberate on ways to increase efficiency in the country through digitisation. Speaking at the event, Olumide Idowu, executive head of Operations (Ag), Vodacom Business Nigeria, said that world leaders are committed to building smart city in an attempt to develop their cities to meet social, economic, and environmental challenges. “The significance of digitisation in creating smart cities cannot be overstated because it makes for more efficient and sustainable economic environment. The sooner Nigeria shift to a digitalised system, the faster the nation can build a competitive advantage on the global stage and can begin to reap the social, economic and environmental benefits that follow,” Idowu explained. Idowu, who noted that Nigeria at moment, is in its technological revolution stage, said that lack of infrastructure provides the country with a ready springboard for the utilisation of Internet of Things (IoT) technologies to create a smarter and a more efficient nation. “By using IoT technology, which is commercially available today, a host of intelligently connected services such as efficient healthcare in rural communities become possible reality,” he added. According to him, Vodacom Business Nigeria in the last one year had in collaboration with some State Governments, made significant strides in the development of smart solutions for problems facing rural communities within the State. “For instance, in the area of healthcare, a solution was deployed to help increase the availability of essential medication by monitoring drug stock levels and improving the delivery of healthcare services to citizens, who access public health services. In education, Vodacom has also launched a mobile school management solution which provides real-time visibility of all management activities at schools. The solution has been deployed to over 4,000 public schools in Nigeria,” he disclosed. Vodacom, he pointed, had in the area of agriculture used connected farmer solution, which provides a platform for connecting various stakeholders within the agricultural ecosystem to create better accountability and efficiency within the industry. Other digital solutions include payment solutions; backup solutions; energy, utility and security solutions are examples of smart solutions available within the Nigerian context.  AMAKA ANAGOR-EWUZIE 