… Over $60m from jerseys sales in 24 hours.
… CR7 could be a Juventus long term investment.
Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro represents, one of the brightest and biggest football stars of modern football recently made a big move from LaLiga side Real Madrid to Serie A giant Juventus in a deal worth €117 million and a record fee in the history of Italian football. Fondly called CR7, he had 5 Ballon d’Or in his name; one at Manchester United and four at Real Madrid, and only Lionel Messi has equaled that feat. Ronaldo is the all-time top scorer UEFA club competitions (123 goals), and he has been the best scorer of the UEFA Champions League seven times. During his spell at Real Madrid, the Portuguese superstar scored 450 goals in 438 matches overall, netted 311 goals in 292 LaLiga games with three Pichichi awards. The 2016 UEFA European Championship trophy was another milestone in his career, as it represented the first international title ever achieved by the Portuguese senior national team. This buy leaves many with a question, is Ronaldo a good investment for Juventus? But the real question should be how Juventus FC will finance such an investment and how a positive ROI can be generated.
According to KPMG report, while increasing transfer fees continue to command the attention of the media and fans, it is noticeable that the ratio between the fee paid for record transfers and the operating revenues of the acquiring club has remained stable at 22% in the last 10 years. While last summer’s record-breaking transfer of Neymar (42%) could be considered as an exception, Ronaldo’s move is much closer to the average (28%). According to Juventus FC’s official statement reports that the total fee for Ronaldo’s acquisition was €117 million: €100 million for the transfer fee (payable in two financial years), plus €5 million to be paid out as FIFA solidarity payments, and €12 million of additional charges owed to agent Jorge Mendes. The Portuguese superstar penned a 4-year deal, which makes the annual amortization of the transfer fee, spread over the duration of the contract, €29.25 million. Cristiano Ronaldo completes Juventus medical The Bianconeri committed to pay a reported net salary of €30 million, resulting in a total gross annual wage cost borne by the club of approximately €55-56 million.
Looking at the latest available financial statement as of 30 June 2017, Ronaldo’s wage cost would represent around 21% of Juventus’ total staff costs (€262 million). Based on calculations, the annual financial impact the acquisition of Cristiano Ronaldo will have on Juventus FC’s accounts is around €85 million, or € 340 million over the 4-year contract period.
In order to justify their investment in the Portuguese superstar, Juventus need to increase their operating revenues over forthcoming seasons. Expectations are that over the next 2-3 seasons the club would likely benefit from an increase in turnover, and eventually narrow the current revenue gap with the nine clubs4 that are ahead of Juventus.
While Juventus will hoping Ronaldo can help the club break a two-decade Champions League title drought, they are already reaping the rewards of the Portuguese superstar. The prolific striker’s No.7 jersey has reportedly sold $60m worth of merchandise in just 24 hours – almost half his Juventus salary. Many young fans who came out to greet their new hero were already wearing Juventus shirts emblazoned with “Ronaldo” and the number 7. It’s likely that they will see a major positive impact from CR7 acquisition in the 2018/19 financial year.
Regarding stadium-related income, we take into account seasonal and matchday tickets, as well as revenues from home matches of UEFA Champions League and the Serie A. Well in advance of the official announcement of the CR7 acquisition, the club published season ticket prices for the upcoming 2018/19 Serie A season, with an average price increase of approximately 30% on the previous season’s pricing. If the total number of season ticket subscribers remains the same as last year (29,300), Juventus would generate €33-34 million from CR7 compared to €24 million for 2016/17. CR7 could likely generate a lot of commercial revenue for Juventus, the club still lag behind Manchester United , Barcelona , Real Madrid and Bayern München with recorded €320 million, €288 million, €280 million and €344 million, respectively, more than twice as much Juventus FC’s figure of EUR 120 million. The gap is even clearer when comparing the jersey value figure for the 2017/18 season. In particular, Juventus made €17 million a season from their main shirt sponsor, Jeep, and €23 million a season from kit supplier Adidas.
On the other hand, Manchester United FC, Barcelona FC and Real Madrid CF report a total jersey value of €156 million, €140 million and €95 million, respectively. Leveraging on the unique communication and business opportunities offered by the Cristiano Ronaldo transfer, Juventus FC will aim to at least fill this relevant gap in terms of commercial revenues over the next two to three seasons according to the KPMG report. Within three football seasons, it possible for Juventus to add an additional €75-100 million, complementing the € 120 million reported in their latest accounts as at 30 June 2017. This would mean reaching approximately 2/3 of the average commercial revenues of the aforementioned clubs in the same year. “Ronaldo’s social media exposure within Asia, South and Central America, and the US would help Juventus to create a more global brand which, in turn, would eventually result in higher revenues. Within this context, Juve have indeed to capitalize on the opportunity to become the second or third favorite choice for football fans. If a star player like Ronaldo moves to a new team, he also bring his sizable follower base with him, as, to a certain extent, fans tend to link more with individuals rather than clubs these days,” says the report. Andrea Sartori, KPMG’s Global Head of Sports and the report’s author, said: “Monetising the inherent value in social media is crucial for clubs in order to stay competitive and to enhance their profitability. Club channels also provide a unique setting for partners and sponsors to activate their brands and, ultimately, increase their sponsorship value or return on investment. This is the area in which Juventus FC will have to make a major effort to fully leverage Ronaldo’s investment. Management commitment, creativity, innovation and, potentially, new skills not currently available at Juventus FC, will also be required to meet revenue growth expectations. These efforts will obviously be facilitated by further success on the pitch and eventually by the win of the UEFA Champions League.” Indeed, there is no doubt that the signing of CR7 provides the club with a new greater bargaining position with their main sponsors. In addition to that, the global appetite for Ronaldo throughout the world provides the Bianconeri with the opportunity to sign new lucrative licensing agreements, combined with the identification of new global sponsors.  Anthony Nlebem & Jonathan Aderoju 