Online advertisements (ads) are getting the cold shoulder by only 25 percent of online users in Nigeria, according to new report released in July by Globalwebindex. Ad blocking in Middle East and Africa (MEA) generally is seen to be lagging behind other regions of the world like South East Asia, North America and New Zealand. This is despite having a largely mobile-first or mobile-only internet users’ population. Other African countries with lesser numbers include Morocco (15%); Ghana (21%); and Kenya (27%). Internet users in Indonesia are the most notorious for blocking online ads, with more than half (53%) likely to do so. China and the United States have 49 percent and 43 percent users blocking ads. The report suggests that online users that are blocking ads in regions outside Africa may have mobile capabilities and tools ahead of that available elsewhere. There are several reasons users block ads online. The most concern for users is too many ads. 48 percent of respondents said they are simply turned off by the interference of too many ads. About 47 percent complained that too many ads become annoying or irrelevant. 44 percent said ads are too intrusive. 39 percent think ads contain viruses or bugs. 37 percent do not like it when ads take up too much screen space and 33 percent said they simply want to speed up page loading times. “Ad-frustration, whether from annoyance with ads or a feeling that they are excessive, is the most popular motivation to block in age groups, peaking from the 55-64s (62%),” the report authors noted. These concerns are buttressed by a research carried out by Ad Lightning, which found that 4 in 10 online ads are oversized. In a bid to save data allowance, young internet users in mobile-first markets could use ad-blockers. The report recommends personalised and relevant advertising as an effective way to reach ad-blocker users. However, any strategy must consider that there may be greater resistance among older users. Internet users globally block ads more (37%) on laptops and PCs compared to mobile phones (32%). In Middle East and Africa, 37 percent block ads on laptops and PCs while 34 percent block ads on smartphones. The report predicts that mobile ad-blocking will soon catch up with laptops and PCs as more online activities migrate to smartphones. “Ad-blocker users in all regions tend to be blocking across multiple devices,” the report stated. “An internet user may be able to see an ad on their mobile which they would otherwise have missed on their PC, but addressing the root cause of user discontent is likely to be more effective than trying to target users with frustrating ads in a different place.”