No fewer than 100,000 Nigerians would be directly or indirectly employed as the Abuja Rail Mass Transit commence full operation Thursday. The project had during construction, employed over over 10,000 Nigerians. Abuja Rail Mass Transit project has initial carrying capacity of 5,000 passengers per day and by 15th month, about 350,000 passengers would be conveyed along two lines; comprising Lots 1A & 3 and 12 stations. The Rail Mass Transit project lots 1A & 3 has double track of 45.245 kilometers, 1,435mm standard gauge, 12 stations, 50 culverts, 12 railway bridges, 9 pedestrian overpass and 15 flyover bridges. Kayode Opeifa, Secretary, Federal Capital Territory Administration, FCTA Transportation Secretariat who gave these explanations  Wednesday in Abuja while briefing journalists ahead of the commissioning of the project said it also has rolling stock depot comprising 21 buildings including operation control centre, training centre, maintenance crew staff quarters and comprehensive maintenance building. Opeifa who stated that the Abuja Rail Mass Transit system was designed primarily to move people within and between the satellite towns and the different phases of the city, said it will provide FCTC residents with efficient and safe transportation system to and from work. According to the Transport Secretary, the Rail would also, “provide residents with a transportation system for mass movement of people and goods between satellite towns and the FCT, reduce travel times and provide residents with an environmental friendly transportation system. ” Integrate the social, political and economic activities between the satellite towns and FCT. Stimulate economic growth, job and wealth creation and reduce traffic congestion in FCT. ” Link people in the satellite towns to the city, promote tourism and improve quality of life and it would be tourist delight”, he stated. Opeifa further announced that the Abuja Rail Mass Transit system is the first of its kind in Nigeria and West Africa with over 60 personnel trained in Malaysia and China. He said, “8 FCT personnel were also trained in Railway operations and management in China and 8 more personnel set to depart China and Japan for further trainings”. According to the Transport Secretary, FCTA and Nigeria now has capacity to supervise similar railway construction projects from start to completion within 3 to 4 years of construction, disclosing that, the project management consultant is a Nigerian firm named, Transurb Technirail Consult Limited.