Premier Cool, a brand of PZ Cussons and one of Nigeria’s heritage brands is set to take its support for the game of football to higher level. Premier Cool has announced the launch of its leisure football competition, tagged “Premier Cool Turf Wars” which is set to hold in Lagos state. The Premier Cool Turf Wars is a 5-Aside football competition set to engage football lovers in a cooler and much more exciting atmosphere. According to Aisha Anakwe, Brand and Activation Manager, Premier cool, the Premier Cool Turf Wars is a 5-Aside football competition that will take the enjoyment of leisure football to a whole new level. “As you may already know we are a football loving brand, which we have demonstrated by our partnership with Manchester City Football Club, as we believe football to be a cool sport loved by all,. Our consumers are really cool guys who despite their busy schedules still make out time for the game of football as a leisure exercise. It is this love and passion we want to reward. So with the Turf Wars football we are looking for the cool guys out there ready to play for pride and walk away with cool cash prizes” She said. Registration for the competition is absolutely free and is open to football lovers between the ages of 18 – 35 years, till 26th July, 2018. Interested participants are encouraged to register as teams, each team should comprise of a minimum of 4 players, 1 goalkeeper, 2 substitutes and 1 official. Each team will be required to choose a team captain who will be responsible for registering the teams on the competition micrositewww.Premiercool.com.ng/Turfwars by providing all the relevant information. Only 16 teams out of the registered teams will make it into the competition proper, as short listing will also include an online voting process. The competition will involve the knockout stages as well as the finals where the eventual winners will emerge. The winning team will get a cash prize of N3million, while the second and third runners up will walk away with N1.5million and N750, 000 respectively. Premier Cool who are the official partners of premier league champions; Manchester City FC are also working with SociaLiga, a local social group based in Lagos that promotes football culture in West Africa, for the Turf Wars football competition. Premier has been in Nigeria for over 30 years and recently relaunched the brand with new offerings and variants to provide consumers with the total personal care.  Anthony Nlebem