Former Commissioner for Public Transportation in Lagos State, Lanre Rasak, has said that the desire to use his years of experience in politics to impact the lives of people of his constituency informed his decision to contest the Lagos East Senatorial seat in the 2019 general election on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Razak, who revealed his intention in an exclusive interview with BDSUNDAY at the weekend, stressed that he had the requisite experience to occupy the position having served at difference capacities in the party and in public offices in the country. He also said that having been in active politics and occupied several positions in the last fifty years, it had become needful for him to use his experience to serve the people of his Senatorial district, stressing that it was the turn of Epe to occupy the Senatorial position. The APC chieftain disclosed that there were zoning arrangements for the position in the Lagos-East Senatorial district which must be respected by the party. Razak, a former National Deputy Chairman of the defunct All Nigerian People’s party (ANPP), said that having served for two terms it was important that the incumbent Senator, Gbenga Ashafa, step down for other individuals in the Senatorial district. “The Senatorial position is a position that shows support to the executive to achieve the best; you need mature people with lots of commitment for the position, and I want to give my experience which I have acquired over the last fifty years by occupying several positions. “We can take advantage of this and move the country forward. One of the things we do in the state is that there is zoning in the Senatorial district and it is the turn of Epe. “The Governor comes from Lagos East but that would not deny us the right to the Senatorial position the leadership of the party knows this. This is our entitlement; all those who have declared their intention to contest are from Epe and one should just pray and hope one get the ticket. We have had other individuals like Senator Adefuye and the rest occupy the position but this is the time of Epe,” Razak said.  Iniobong Iwok 