World Hepatitis Day, observed on July 28 every year, aims to raise global awareness of hepatitis and encourage prevention, diagnosis and treatment. Hepatitis affects hundreds of millions of people worldwide, causing acute and chronic disease. World Hepatitis Day is one of eight official global public health campaigns marked by the World Health Organisation (WHO). At least there are about five viruses that can cause hepatitis. The three most common are hepatitis viruses A, B and C. In Nigeria the prevalence of hepatitis virus infection is high and citizens lack of awareness about the prevalence of chronic viral disease in the country linking to high number of death. “About 20 million Nigerians have hepatitis, but many people may appear healthy physically, said Isaac Adewole, Minister of health. The World Health Organisation says that viral hepatitis B and C are major health challenges, affecting 325 million people globally. They are root causes of liver cancer, leading to 1.34 million deaths every year. “Hepatitis B and C are chronic infections that may not show symptoms for a long period, sometimes years or decades. At least 60 per cent of liver cancer cases are due to late testing and treatment of viral hepatitis B and C. Low coverage of testing and treatment is the most important gap to be addressed in order to achieve the global elimination goals by 2030,” say the agency. However, the virus could have mild or no symptoms, but as the disease progresses, chronic hepatitis can lead to progressive liver failure, swelling of the lower extremities, confusion, and blood in the faeces or vomit, dark urine, itchy skin, yellow skin, whites of the eyes, and tongue. Larne Yusuf, a medical practitioner based in Lagos said that efforts should be made to enhance public education about improving sanitation, hygiene practices and food safety. “Hepatitis can be prevented and controlled, though recovery might take a little time. But it is also advisable that people get vaccinated against the virus,” says Yusuf. Yusuf further said that the following precautions could prevent possible infection of the disease by general hygiene, washing hands with soap after using the toilet. Eat fruit and raw vegetables if you are sure they have been properly washed, practicing safe sex by using condoms and avoid multiple sex partners. Consumption of alcohol with moderation and avoid injecting illegal drugs into the body. He however added that Hepatitis A and C are curable, but hepatitis B is only preventable by vaccine.  ANTHONIA OBOKOH 