As the nation grapples with swelling unemployment figures among its youthful population a nonprofit organization, DigifyPro Nigeria a subsidiary of Digify Africa PRO has just made 20 young Nigerian graduates job hunt a little easier.  The not-for-profit initiative with support from Facebook has designed an eight weeks intensive Digital Marketing training programme for the lucky 20 out of over 700  applicants, who are between the ages of 20 to 30 years with a promise to end in a job for the participants through internship. Florence Olumodimu, DigifyPro Program Director Nigeria, explained that the training could only accommodate 20 in a bid to give attention to each participant. Olumodimu said the programme which was designed to give trainees practical hands-on experience, would cover topics such as vocational and workplace skills, agency processes, customer care, client services and digital marketing. “This training is meant to increase youths’ employability skill; it is going to be free for all participants instead of paying N1 million being charged by some other companies. “After the eight weeks programme, each of the 20 beneficiaries will be put in one of Nigeria’s top marketing communications agency for an internship of three months,” she said. “our end goal is to inject the Nigerian advertising industry with well-trained DigifyPRO graduates who bring with them a new burst of energy and critical cutting-edge skills,” she said. Florence further noted that the eight-week intensive training on digital skills, employability skills and how to pass interviews alongside different things will enable the young graduates at the end of the training apply for a minimum of three-month internship with different agencies in other to implement what have been impacted during the course of training” Qhakaza Nthembu According to the Head of Strategy DigifyPro, emphasised “what we find in South Africa when we launched this initiative Digify Africa is that a lot of the universities training is quite theoretical when young people and graduates enters the industry with a lot of theories and not so much in the practical they find it difficult to take up some practical challenge so we plan to merge the two both the theory and the practical skills which is not so difficult in the course of the digital training so they can have much experience. Nothing that the program will also enlighten them and they can learn a lot of basics of social media, introduction to content creation, advertising page, to web design and then also going to know how to apply all they’ve learnt. “The need for industry support is very vital and that is why we would bring the agencies within the industry each week to give some live brief to the young selected graduates on what the agencies are currently working on or a challenge they are currently experiencing which will be thrown out to the young twenty people for them to apply all the knowledge they have learnt, of course they need to put that which they’ve been trained into practice and then present right back to agencies,” she stressed. Some of the participant expressed confidence that the training will further positioned them for the digital revolution. One of them, Anthony Nwokoye, a first-class Philosophy graduate from Nnamdi Azikiwe University, said that the world had gone digital and that youths should take advantage of the digital age. “I thank God for the opportunity and Digifypro Nigeria for this, I will make sure this transforms my life.” Another participant, Miss Faith Jonathan, an English Education graduate from Delta State University, also revealed that she would train other interested youths on completion of the training. “I am from a community where digital marketing is not known, I will train other youths in my community in Delta as soon as I am through with the training. Many of my colleagues elsewhere have spent thousands of Naira to get trained,” she said. Also, Edwin Nnabude, a Business Administration graduate from the Redeemer’s University in Osun, said the skill of digital marketing was required in modern-day transactions. “This is the biggest opportunity for me which will make me get my dream job,” said Nnabude, a first-class graduate. 