Voters in Ekiti State are anxiously awaiting the announcement of the result of the governorship election held in the state yesterday. The electorate in the state trooped out in their numbers yesterday to elect a new governor who will steer the ship of the state for the next four years. This is as the tenure of the incumbent governor, Peter Ayodele Fayose, comes to an end in October. Even though 35 political parties fielded candidates in the election, it was clearly a two-way contest between Kayode Fayemi of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a former governor of the state and immediate past minister of solid minerals development, and Kolapo Olusola Eleka of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), a professor and incumbent deputy governor of the state. The political parties sought votes from a total of 2,195 polling units spread across the 177 wards in 16 local government areas of the state. Early voter turnout amid heavy security presence Voters were seen as early as 6.30 am moving to the polling booths in different parts of the state. Voters trekked as far as 5 kilometres to the various polling units in order to vote for the candidates of their choice. Although 913,334 voters registered in the state, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said about 250,000 permanent voter cards (PVCs) remained uncollected as at the time of the election. BDSUNDAY checks show that the large turnout of voters could not be unconnected with high mobilization drives by the two dominant party, the APC and PDP. Massive turnout was noticed in Odo Ado, Ijigbo, Ajilosun, Adebayo area, Ilotin, Oke Bola, Atinkankan, Okeyinmi ke ila, all in Ekiti Central senatorial district. Reports from Ikere Ekiti in Ekiti South senatorial district, where Kolapo Olusola, the PDP governorship candidate, voted, as well as Isan Ekiti in the Ekiti North senatorial district where Kayode Fayemi, the APC candidate, voted indicate that the electorate arrived at the polling units and booths early as voter accreditation and elections started as scheduled. Heavy security presence was recorded in all the 16 local government areas of the state as combined security team of Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Department of State Security, Nigeria Customs Service, Federal Roads Safety Corps, among others were seen everywhere. For every 500 metres on every major road, security men were seen stopping and searching some unaccredited vehicles in addition to the detachments of security men manning different polling units and booths across the state, just as military men mounted checkpoints at all roads leading into and out of the state. Fayemi votes as card reader fails Eleka Kayode Fayemi, the APC candidate, cast his vote at about 10:30am after arriving at his Polling Unit 009, Ward 11, in Oye LGA at exactly 10:19am. But his PDP counterpart was not that lucky. There was palpable tension as the card reader failed to recognise the fingerprint of the PDP candidate, Olusola Eleka, at his Ikere-Ekiti country home. Eleka had arrived at the polling unit at exactly 9.15 am to be accredited and vote. Although his wife voted, the PDP flag-bearer could not and he had to leave to allow others exercise their civic responsibility. Speaking on the sidelines of the incident, Eleka expressed worry over the incidence, calling for immediate action to rectify the error for him to cast his vote. “I cannot say that I do not have confidence in the electoral process, but I am worried, and I do not really understand what is really happening. The card reader could not recognise my card, they said maybe it is bent, but you can see it, it is straight,” the PDP candidate said. “I think I am still the only person being affected here, as others are casting their votes without hindrance. I believe the commission will do something very fast to find solution to this,” he said. Eleka eventually cast his vote at exactly 11:10am. APC, PDP trade accusation over alleged malpractice Ayo Arise, a senator and chieftain of the APC, accused the PDP of electoral malpractice, alleging multiple voting by suspected youths in some polling units and booths in Oye Local Government Area. Arise, who voted at his Ward 1 Unit 5 Oye-Ekiti, alleged that the youth were moving from one unit to another with different PVCs, saying the tendency for the PDP and its candidate to rig the election in some areas such as Oye Ekiti was very high. But a member of Ekiti State House of Assembly and PDP chieftain in Oleje-Ekiti, Samuel Omotosho, dismissed the allegations of multiple voting, saying PDP didn’t have such tendency as alleged by APC and that the election had been peaceful, insisting that it would be credible except APC did otherwise. Omotosho explained that there were some areas where the card reader machines were malfunctioning. He, however, lauded the INEC and the security agencies for the peaceful conduct of the exercise. Responding to the allegation of multiple voting, the presiding officer in one of the polling units, Nafisat Sani, denied any case of multiple voting, saying that the card reader machine would not allow any form of multiple voting. Meanwhile, some voters pointed out cases of inducement in the election, alleging that the incumbent governor, Ayodele Fayose, who is the political godfather of Kolapo Olusola, the PDP governorship candidate, was trying to influence the voting pattern with an alleged inducement of voters. A voter who is also a civil servant in the State Civil Service alleged that Governor Fayose credited civil and public servants’ salary accounts with N7,000 each on Friday, a day to the election. The civil servant, who was also one of beneficiaries of the alleged government election largesse, added that her aged mother, a state pensioner who was in the United States, also received an alert of N5,000 in her account, just as she revealed that people at the informal sector, the transporters, the commercial bikers, market women, among others, also received 4,000 cash each on Friday as part of inducement to vote PDP. Also, some people, especially PDP members, alleged that Fayemi and the APC also distributed money to the electorate in order to influence the voting pattern. He explained that APC also chartered buses from all other neighbouring states being governed by APC to bring all sorts of people to either transport unregistered electorate to vote or convey political thugs around. “We had information that APC had ‘imported’ political thugs into Ekiti State to hijack our votes and rig the election. We will not allow that; PDP and Prof. Olusola, our candidate, are very popular here and it would take APC a lot of work to wrest power from us,” Tunde Ajayi, who identified himself as PDP member, said. Reported cases of minor violence A party agent at Polling Unit 01, Ward 001, Udi in Ado Ekiti was attacked with acid by an unidentified person following a dispute. Meanwhile, voting process was disrupted briefly in polling unit 012 of Igbemo Ward in Irepodun-Ifelodun Local Government Area when a non-uniformed party agent stormed the venue to campaign for his party. The man who was simply identified as Kazeem stormed the polling unit at about 9 a.m. when voting was already underway. Speaking in local dialect, Kazeem charged the electorates on the queue to vote for the APC candidate, Kayode Fayemi. “Vote for APC. Whoever votes for PDP will have his fingers cut off,” he said repeatedly. The action infuriated another electorate who charged at Kazeem with a plank. The polling unit was, however, brought back to normalcy by security operatives. Residents said Kazeem had earlier visited two other polling units with similar message. 113-year-old woman votes A 113-year-old woman, Mama Ibiteye Comfort Bodunde, made history as she defied the odds to cast her vote. She was helped to the polling booth by a young man.