The Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) a breakaway faction of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has praised the President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki and the national legislators who have defected to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday on the floor of the Nigerian Senate. A statement issued by the Publicity Secretary of the R-APC, Prince Kassim Afegbua, entitled “Welldone, Our Gallant Lawmakers” made available to BusinessDay on Tuesday noted that the lawmakers had the courage to resist the draconian attitude of the federal government led by President Muhammadu Buhari, who tried in vain to use the compromised police to stop the Senate from carrying out its constitutional duties. The R-APC also condemns the action of the Inspector General of Police IGP, who directed the police to harass Saraki,  saying “while the nation is suffering in the hands of bandits, fulani herdmen, terrorists and kidnappers, as if it were unpoliced, the Inspector General of Police has suddenly developed erection in trying to undermine the institution of the Legislature. We say never again shall we allow anyone, no matter how highly placed, to undermine our democracy,” the statement said. 15 Senators of the APC defected to the PDP in a gale of defection that suddenly hit the ruling party on Tuesday morning. Among the APC senators that defected to the PDP are; senator representing Kano central, Rabiu Kwankwaso, and senator representing Kogi west, Dino Melaye. Other senators are; Abdullahi Danbaba, Sokoto, Isa Misau, Bauchi; Suleiman Nazif; Baki Shittu, Jigawa; Monsurat Sunmmonu, Oyo; Bayero Nafada, Gombe and Olanrewaju Tejuoso, Ogun and Barnabas Gemade, Benue. In the House of Representatives, Speaker Yakubu Dogara read the respective letters of members that defected at the plenary, stressing that a total of 36 members on Tuesday dumbed the APC. Four of the lawmakers from Oyo State defected to the Africa Democratic Congress, ADC, 32 others went to the PDP. The R-APC said in its statement that “We woke up on Tuesday, 24th July to the very pathetic, ridiculous, fascistic, gangsteristic, and gestapoeic realities that have occupied our democratic space when President Buhari’s police decided to lay siege on the house of the leadership of the Senate, Bukola Saraki. He was prevented from proceeding to the hallowed chambers to carry out his legitimate duties as the duly elected Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We had raised alarm on the juicy carrot being dangled before some of our members and had alerted the country of sinister moves to call the Senate President a bad name in order to hang him. Barely three days after our earlier note of caution, the well scripted drama to undermine the rights of our members have come to light but in a very disturbing and utterly condemnable, Gestapo manner similar to that of members of the Jacobian scandal club of mideaval ages in American 16th Century political history,” the statement said. The R-APC also lamented that the Police, who should serve as the custodian of the democratic rights of the people, who should provide a good anchorage to safeguard the lives and properties of the people, have suddenly become instrument of oppression, suppression and willing tools in the hands of the powers-that-be. The R-APC said further that the police have brought ridicule to the institution of the Police and continuously make Nigeria a laughing stock in the comity of nations. “It baffles us that while we are putting in place concerted efforts to secure our democracy by fighting brazen injustices and outright abuses, the APC government that prides itself as fighters of corruption have been trying hard to crumble this democracy. The utterances of the disputed Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole who has become the National President of the APC churning out presidential orders, signpost a dangerous trend in our democracy. Those symptoms of maximum rulership which have dominated political discourse in recent times represent sad commentary in our attempt to build and sustain democratic ethos and values in a country troubled by bad leadership,” the statement added. The statement  praised the lawmakers for their courage to abandon the APC, which has it noted has derailed saying,  “we salute our gallant lawmakers for their bold decision to exit from this colony of maximum rulers called the  APC and helping to redirect the compass for better political engagements and sustenance of our hard-earned democracy. We salute the President of the Senate; Dr. Bukola Saraki, for his bravery, courage and boldness in confronting agents of the oppressors to preside over the Senate for legislative duties. He was firm and calm in his disposition, and collected in his delivery of the message of hope during plenary,” the statement said. The R-APC also called on all Nigerians and members of the international community to rise up to the occasion of safeguarding Nigeria’s democracy that is presently under siege midwifed by desperate leaders who are poised for unhealthy and undemocratic showdown. “We fought hard to birth this democracy, hence we will not sit back and watch the descent to anarchy by agents of destruction populated in the APC. It is a call to collective responsibility by all lovers of democracy to help in calling the Inspector General of Police to order. This ridiculous show of impunity is an ill-wind that blows no good,” the statement said. 