Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has called for  strict adherence to democratic principles, even as he canvassed for improved synergy between the three arms of government.  Dogara who frowned at the unfriendly disposition of the Executive arm towards the Legislature in the discharge of its statutory activities, warned that any leader who does not understand democratic principles should have no business leading a democracy.  He stated this on Monday at the maiden National Assembly Open Week in Abuja.  While acknowledging the importance of the event, the Speaker harped on the need for the three arms to “work in an orderly, synchronised and complementary form for development to really thrive. But this can only happen if the foundational principles of democracy are preserved.”  He also expressed optimism that the new phase of openness being launched by National Assembly bureaucracy will “afford the people of Nigeria the opportunity to better understand the workings of the Legislature in proper perspectives.  “I say this because many Nigerians do not quite understand the functions of the Parliament in carrying out its constitutionally assigned roles and responsibilities. The Parliament does its works through Legislation, Representation and Oversight. Through Legislation, we make Laws for the peace, order and good governance of the country. Through representation, we advance the particular interests of the people of our constituencies and the interests of Nigerians generally, while through oversight, we oversee or monitor the activities of the other Aarms of Government.  “Permit me to use this occasion to reiterate that the Legislature is the paramount Arm of Government because the whole idea of limited government and representative democracy begins and ends with Law making and execution of laws. This reality has not dawned on many Nigerians mainly because of our Military era experiences during which the elected Legislature was always disbanded, at the slightest sound of martial music”.  The lawmaker called on the two other arms of government to open their doors for legislative scrutiny.  On his part, Senate President Bukola Saraki called for closer partnership between the executive and legislative arms to ensure effective governance in the country.  Saraki said it is imperative for both arms of government to better understand one another through “compromise, consultation and engagement.”  “It is also my hope that during this week, we will be able to better represent what we are doing to Nigerians,” Saraki said. “It is my hope that the Executive arm will also be able to get a better understanding of National Assembly’s role.”  He added: “Let us work together. Let us understand each other. Let us understand that compromise, consultation and engagement are the factors that will ensure that as a government, we work together effectively.  “The message that I would like us to take away from here is: We must work together. We must understand our responsibilities and we must put Nigeria first.  “I just got back from America, and I noticed that even after over 200 years of their democracy, they still go through the same challenges. We should not despair. Democracy is a journey that will take a while. However, we must be committed to working together,” Saraki stated.  The President of the Senate also noted that Parliaments all over the world act as unifying forces in democratic society since the manner of their conversation makes them the true representatives of the people.  “It follows therefore that the National Assembly, is the closest arm of government to the Nigerian people,” he said. “The wide-range of activities that we have planned for this week will ensure that we remain the closest arm of government to the people and that our doors will remain open.”  He stated that accessibility of the National Assembly Complex is deliberate, to ensure that citizens have access to their elected representatives.  He equally expressed hope that the Open Week would provide another opportunity for lawmakers to interact with the  people and showcase what they are doing in order to foster a better understanding of the role of the National Assembly.  He said: “As legislators, we are very much aware that modern lawmaking, requires the deliberate engagement of people. This is because, the issues that matter to people should form the core objective of parliament.  “This Open Week will ensure that the National Assembly remains in tune with the mood of the nation because from our findings, we see that a majority of Nigerians are not sure about the work of the National Assembly.  “We hope that through this process, more Nigerians will be able to understand our role and responsibilities — the work that we do; the bills that we pass; the process that it takes; and the procedures that are required in the legislative system,” he stated.  The four-day event aims to broaden public understanding of legislative functions and processes, highlight the achievements of the National Assembly in promoting legislative openness, create a platform for interraction between legislators and key stakeholders as well as improve public confidence in democratic institutions, particularly the legislature.  Participants include state assemblies, civil society organisations/non-govermental organisations, private sector, media groups and organisations, committees of the National Assembly, researchers/academia, traditional and religious leaders, development partners, ministries, departments and agencies, judiciary, trade unions/pressure groups, lobby groups among others.