Slim Girl Shapewear CEO, Juliana Richards who has just written her first book Building a Million Dollar Side Hustle; a book about her life and her journey to building a multi-million-dollar enterprise, had an intimate book brunch on her birthday, 17th of July, 2018, at an upscale brunch spot in Lagos called The Harvest. Building A Million Dollar Side Hustle, which was launched  worldwide on the 26th of June 2018, is an extraordinary book with a well put together narrative on how the author successfully built her business from scratch. The book details common mistakes entrepreneurs make and how the best practices to overcome them, Juliana Richards also shared her inspiring life stories and struggles in this book. The 123-page book is a must read for every person who plans to go into business and who is inspired by the life journeys of phenomenal women. In attendance to this power brunch was an impressive group of women entrepreneurs such as Veronica Odeka, CEO of Vane Style and Founder of Vane Polish, Oke Maduwesi, Founder of Cosmetic Line, Zaron, Claire Sotomi, Founder of Claire Sotomi Shoes & Bags, Simi Esiri, the founder of SCHICK Magazine, Deola Okeshola, the CEO of 2706 Events, Chizoba Okpala, the Founder of Elles Icebox and author of Africa’s first cocktail book, Didi Okoli, MD of Carspa, TV Personality and Producer, Vimbai Mutinhiri, Strategy Executive of Business Day and anchor of Financial Inclusion Today radio show,Lehlé Baldé, Vanessa Banigo, Salihat Rahaman, Founder of Abaya Lagos, Shade Ladipo ED of We Connect and owner of a Travel Agency, Yinka Tekena, Owner of Happy Coffee and more!  The brunch gave Juliana Richards the opportunity to introduce herself to these women who she was meeting for the first time, talk about her life, her struggles and her success. She also read an excerpt from one of the chapters and talked about the purpose of the book. Guests gave commentaries and reviews about the book and shared similar stories and experiences found in the book. In the middle of chatter, great food and mimosas were served, each guest got to talk about various topics affecting women in business and shared inspirational messages which was captured live on Instagram by leading female publication SCHICK Magazine. The event was sponsored by The Harvest, SCHICK Magazine, Body Fab and Slim Girl Shapewear. All the ladies walked away with gift bags from VANE POLISH and SLIM GIRL and Shick Magazines. To Purchase Building a Million Dollar Side Hustle, please visit SLIM GIRL outlet at suit 38&39, Aaron’s Lekki Mall, by Ebeanor Supermarket, off Admiralty Way, Lekki Phase One. The book is also available on www.slimgirl.ng