The news of the defection of over 50 serving National Assembly members from the governing All Progressives Congress (APC) did not come as a surprise to many. Those who have been following trends in the political atmosphere will attest to the fact that it was not a question of if but when the aggrieved lawmakers would pitch tent with other political parties. But first things first: to clear the air on the controversy surrounding the status of some lawmakers, may I inform our readers that only defectors whose letters have been read on the floor of the Senate by the Presiding Officer, regardless of what they tell the press or their constituency, are deemed to have defected. To this end, senators like Stella Oduah, Sonni Ogbuoji, Fatima Raji-Razaki, Hope Uzodinma who were reported to have cross-carpeted outside the hallowed chamber from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) are still members of PDP in the records of the Senate. For the avoidance of doubt, they sat on their allocated seats on PDP row even on the last day of sitting last week. As for the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Lanre Tejuoso (Ogun Central) – whose letter was read as having decamped from APC to PDP only to declare on national television that he was ‘partyless’ and within 24 hours, made a u-turn by joining other APC lawmakers to visit President Muhammadu Buhari – so long as the Presiding Officer has not read his letter rescinding his decision, he will swallow the bitter pill of sitting on PDP row upon resumption by September 25, 2018. One does not need to be a political scientist to know that Senate President Bukola Saraki is on his way from the All Progressives Congress (APC). His hint at Tuesday plenary that he would soon leave the governing party, coupled with his conspicuous absence at the meeting the All Progressive Congress (APC) Caucus in the Senate had with President Buhari, are clear pointers to this. Also, other senators whose physical bodies are in the APC but their souls have left the party include: Sani Yerima, Umaru Kurfi, Tijani Kaura, Bukar Abba Ibrahim, Mustapha Mohammed, Danjuma Goje, Binta Garba, Ahmed Abubakar, among others. They were all absent at the APC Senate Caucus meeting with Buhari. For Senate Leader Ahmad Lawan, the failed coup against Saraki was an anti-climax of some sort having been tipped by pro-Buhari senators as Saraki’s replacement, only to become ‘Minority Leader’ following the movement of fourteen APC senators in the ‘Senate Transfer Market’. Spanish writer and philosopher, George Santayana, once said: “Those who cannot learn from history are doomed to repeat it”. The gale of defection is a case of deja-vu. Just like the build up to the 2015 general election, the dramatis personae are almost the same; the only difference is that both the All Progressives Congress (APC) and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have simply engaged in role reversal. The unfolding developments also bring to the front burner the dearth of ideology among political parties in Nigeria. This explains why politicians like former Vice President Atiku Abubakar; immediate past governor of Kano State and senator representing Kano Central in the National Assembly Rabiu Kwankwaso; Senators Suleiman Hunkuyi, Dino Melaye and a host of others would switch parties from PDP to APC and back to PDP. This also explains the euphoria in the camp of PDP and why the party is already planning a special National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to receive them. Modern democratic societies have organised political parties by bringing together people with common underlying ideologies about how society should be organised in order to achieve the common good. For instance, in the United States of America, Democrat is to the left, as Republican is to the right. Unfortunately, politicians in this part of the world jump ship not for the interest of the electorate but for their own selfish gain. Here, people form political parties for the sake of grabbing political power for power sake. Defecting lawmakers are not concerned about the well-being of their constituents but on securing return tickets and continue enjoying the perks of office. As party primaries commence by next month, no doubt there will be realignment of political forces, as more defections are expected to follow. While the September 25 adjournment gives lawmakers enough time for political consultations, this will negatively affect pending Executive requests that require National Assembly approval. These include approval of N242 billion 2019 elections budget, approval of borrowings to fund the 2018 Appropriation Act, 2018 budget proposals of 64 government-owned corporations as well as confirmation of appointments.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 