The recent report on torrential rainfall in Ogun and Katsina, which claimed lives and destroyed properties, is capable of affecting Nigeria’s food security quest. Aggravated flooding remains a recurring phenomenon in Nigeria and it is usually caused by climate change.
According to experts, rainfall patterns in Nigeria are getting more intense with fewer rainy days. This implies that more rains are falling on the days there are rainfall, and storms are also getting more intense, increasing the threat of flooding in the country.
“Climate change is a major threat to food security in Nigeria and across the globe and it’s now glaring for everybody to see. If you look around the world, you will see various phenomena such as mudslides and hurricane, among others,” Newton Jibunoh, an environmentalist and migration expert, said. “When we talk of climate change, we talk about how the rain is falling more intense than ever, when it is hot how it’s getting hotter and this is what is bringing about the shift,” Jibunoh said.
What is Climate Change?
Climate change, also called global warming, refers to the rise in average surface temperatures on earth. An overwhelming scientific consensus maintains that climate change is due primarily to the human use of fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases into the air.
“Climate change is now recognised and acknowledged as the most pressing and serious issue mankind has ever faced and this climate change is brought about by man’s activities causing global warming,” said Desmond Majekodunmi, an environmentalist, farmer and chief executive officer of Lufasi Nature Park.
What are the causes of climate change?
The major cause of climate change is the burning of fossil fuels, such as oil and coal, which emits greenhouse gases into the atmosphere—primarily carbon dioxide.
Nigeria’s vulnerability to climate change is closely linked to the country’s low adaptive capacity and increasing dependence on resources sensitive to changes in climate. In the rural areas, major activities that contribute to climate change include bush burning and illegal felling of trees, a means of livelihood for the production of fuel wood and charcoal.
This has reduced the country’s forest cover, which serves as a big buffer against climate change, from about 45 percent in the 1960s to less than 5 percent today. “We are putting far too much carbon dioxide into the atmosphere and part of earth’s perfect nature of absorbing the carbon dioxide is the green vegetation, particularly the forest that can sequel carbon in multi layers. “But we are particularly diminishing the forests which are put in place to help absorb the carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere and also the essential giver of oxygen,” Majekodunmi said. While some quantities of these gases are a naturally occurring and critical part of earth’s temperature control system, the atmospheric concentration of CO2 did not rise above 300 parts per million between the advent of human civilization roughly 10,000 years ago and 1900. But today, it is at about 400 parts per million (ppm), a level not reached in more than 400,000 years. How it impacts food security
Agricultural activities are hard hit by irregular climate patterns, which hurt farming activities. When severe floods occur, farmers incur huge losses, as their crops get submerged beyond a level they could thrive.
Similarly, fungal diseases usually become more rampant when extensive flooding overtakes farmlands. “Farmers usually lose their crops when they are submerged in flood because flooded soils are deficient of oxygen as the soil air spaces are displaced by water. With this most of the crops die since the oxygen for their growth and development is lacking in the soil,” AfricanFarmer Mogaji, chief executive officer, X-ray Farms Limited said. “During flood there is a lot of fungi development, which leads to a lot of fungal diseases in crop production,” Mogaji said.  Josephine Okojie 