The weekend is here again, and so we’ve picked randomly, some really cool novels that will keep you glued to you phone screen all weekend. See them below The Dark Rivers Of Yesterday by Ikenna Igwe  If you’ve ever lived in a face-me-I-face-you building, you may just find yourself in some of the characters in Ikenna Igwe’s ‘The Dark Rivers of Yesterday’. The endless early morning queues to bathe or use the toilet, the continuous gossiping among co-tenants, fighting, betrayal, setup and so much more will make you sad, frown or laugh. The entire story is about a family, who after suffering financial loss, had to move into a face-me-I-face-you building and stayed in that hellish place for 7 good years. This book is definitely a must-read for you this weekend.  Read it here   Fragmentations: Shadows from the Lost World by Ugo Aniga  When reading this book, Ruth’s character easily brought to mind one of Nigeria’s best selling and award-winning author, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. The story focuses on Ruth, her birth, childhood experiences, her quest for education, and her determination to see the African woman raised above the status of a mere domestic help and child bearer, as imposed on them by the society. Just as Chimamanda is the voice of Feminism in today’s world, Ruth is the voice of change and equality, doing everything against all odds to unite the old world and new world for the best experiences of global development.  Read it here   Where Is The Love? by The Fertile Chick  If you’ve never found your heart torn between two men, then please, pray you never find yourself in that position (hehehe). This experience is one that will most certainly render you speechless and paralyzed, and if you aren’t careful, you might make the wrong decisions and then develop some serious heartache. This is what happens to Gina in The Fertile Chick’s ‘Where is The Love.’ Feeling abandoned and less appreciated by her husband, she yearns for love and attention. These, she found in the open arms of her ex, Mudi. You need to find out for yourself, how the events in this story, plays out.  Read it here   Kristine’s Lodge by Roland Abah  Planning your career is one thing, stumbling on it, with no plans or education on how it really works, is another. Roland Abah, in this fashion and modeling themed novel, addresses a lifestyle that keeps your time and attention only on looking after your body, doing everything to stay in shape for the modeling business, fame, and more money. This novel is fast-paced. The main characters are five female friends. And the book is about their luxurious and adventurous lifestyle, career education, and self-discovery.  Read it here  