Belgium earned their highest World Cup finish by beating England, 2-0, in the third-place match on Saturday. Thomas Meunier and Eden Hazard scored a goal each. “These players didn’t want to rely on talent anymore, wanted to work as a team,” Belgium Coach Roberto Martínez said. “Their standards have been magnificent. They wanted to make the country proud, every single Red Devils fan proud.” France and Croatia will play in the final on Sunday at Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow. The French beat Belgium on Tuesday in the semifinals, while the Croats defeated England on Wednesday. Meunier’s early goal matched a World Cup record for Belgium. Only two other teams have had 10 different players score in the tournament: France in 1982 and Italy in 2006. Both Belgium and England were playing for the seventh time in 26 days, but the Belgians entered the match with an extra day of rest. Meunier scored in the fourth minute, knocking a cross from Nacer Chadli past England goalkeeper Jordan Pickford. Hazard added the other off a pass from Kevin De Bruyne in the 82nd. Toby Alderweireld denied England’s best chance of the game, sliding on the goal line to clear a shot from Eric Dier. England matched its best World Cup result — fourth in 1990 — since winning the tournament for the only time in 1966. “Today shows there’s room for improvement,” England striker Harry Kane said. “We’re not the finished article. We’re still learning. We’re still getting better. We don’t want to wait another 20-odd years to get into another major semifinal.” Belgium’s previous best finish at the World Cup was fourth, but the team outplayed England in the midfield to go one better this time. The Belgians could easily have scored more, with Pickford making a good save to stop a shot from De Bruyne in the 11th and Alderweireld volleying narrowly over the bar in the 35th. England, which had made set pieces the cornerstone of its run to the semifinals, created chances for Harry Maguire and Dier in the second half. Both missed the target with their headers. It was the second time England and Belgium had met in this year’s tournament. In the group stage, both teams had already qualified before Belgium’s 1-0 win in Kaliningrad.