Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Thursday called for justice and equity within the ranks and files of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC) will be able to silence voices of dissent and opposition within its fold. This is just as Adams Oshiomhole, the newly elected APC National Chairman, declared  Buba Galadima factional leader of ReformedAPC, a hired mercenary. Dogara gave this charge at a peace meeting between APC National Working Committee with members of APC caucus in the Lower Chamber. The Speaker who observed there is no human endeavor that is perfect, however harped on the need for justice which he described as ‘indivisible and universal’. “In every family whether it is a nuclear, extended or an organisation there is bound to be problem and that is because we human that are running those institutions are not perfect ourselves”. “So we don’t expect perfection in from any quarters.Our only expectation is the issue of justice and justice is indivisible. What is justice to the executive should be justice to the legislature and it should be justice to the judiciary”. “What is justice to the President and the Vice President should be justice to the Governor and it has to be justice for the members of the National Assembly, because you can’t divide justice. Once you begin to divide justice you don’t have justice”. “And once we are able to get these things in their proper perspectives to some extent we will be able to silence the voices of dissent within the party but we have problems is perfectly okay but we mustn’t allow our problems to define us rather we should define our problems as a party,” Dogara said.
The Speaker who expressed optimism in the ability and capacity of the new APC National Chairman to tackle the challenges confronting the party, said: “I know that you come well prepared we can only wish you well and pray for God’s additional wisdom because human wisdom won’t be enough as you navigate very treacherous terrain we pray for God’s wisdom for you.”
While addressing Legislative Correspondents after the closed door session with members of the APC caucus Oshiomhole alleged that the leader of the R-APC, Buba Galadima was a mercenary sponsored by those who thought the APC national convention will not succeed.
“But surprisingly everything went smoothly as all the principal officers well seated so they failed their mission and as for this meeting we all had a robust conversation. He further argued that there was “nothing like imposition of candidates and we’ll eliminate such things because I have authority to say what I want to say so we are on course.”
Oshiomhole had earlier in his remarks extended hands of fellowship to all aggrieved members of the party saying “every person matters in our party. Because all party members voluntarily moved from various political platforms, and dissolved those platforms in order to give birth to the All Progressive Congress.”