Babatunde Irukera, the director general, Consumer Protection Council has said that the removal of Value Added Tax (VAT) for airlines will amount to better experience and better pricing for the passengers. Recall that barely three weeks after indigenous airlines in Nigeria threatened to stop remittance of VAT to the Federal Government, the government last month bowed to the demand of the local carriers. Speaking during the 22nd Annual Seminar & Awards of the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents (LAAC) at Sheraton Hotels and Suites, Lagos, last week, Irukera said he was in support of the VAT waivers given to the airline. “I don’t look at things from a tax stand point, which is more from a business stand point. But if that trickles all the way to benefit to consumers, both from a service stand point and a pricing stand point then I think it is an excellent idea,” he said. On CPC’s efforts to enhance service delivery and customer relations, Irukera said there has been some improvement but there are still a lot of challenges, most of which are on soft infrastructural issues. He noted that regardless of all these challenges, the airlines have to measure their responsiveness and sensitivity indexes with respect to their consumers. “One thing is that they don’t even have the appropriate mechanism for people to call in and have complaints resolves. For airports and the airside or the terminal side, their experiences are vital to consumer experiences also, even if you have the best airports but there is poor responsiveness, then consumers will still be displeased. “Airline industry is one place where you can easily satisfy consumers. Nobody wants to fly when it is unsafe to fly, so if there is delay for a legitimate safety reasons, consumers will actually appreciate that. But what needs to happen is that first, those delays have to be for legitimate reasons and your responsiveness and sensitivity to the issues must be such that you are upfront, you provide the information and then you provide options or find a way to mitigate whatever inconveniences consumers will be experiencing,” he explained. In addition to these, he suggested that in working with the sector regulator, it is going to be important to truly provide the kind of 360 degree protection that is required. “I am also grateful that the sector regulator has agreed to work with us and has invited me to their meeting and we had an opportunity to jointly confront the airlines, so I think that is a good thing,” he added.  IFEOMA OKEKE 