The 2018 State of States Report will be launched at Abuja on Thursday, July 19 2018 at the dinner/gala for this year’s States Competitiveness and Good Governance Awards popularly called the Governors’ Awards.  The latest edition of the report, which is more expansive than the first edition produced in 2013, takes an in-depth look at indicators which are critical for Nigeria’s economic prosperity.  These indicators are the revenue from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) and how it was shared among the 36 states of the federation as well as the portion that was given to the 774 local government areas in the country; the FAAC portion that each geopolitical zone received as well as what these revenues meant for an individual in a state and geopolitical region in the country; the budgetary allocations to health, education, among others.  The report also takes a look at the internally generated revenue (IGR), consumption of white products such PMS, AGO and HHK across states in each geopolitical zones; mobile and internet penetration rates, neonatal, prenatal and maternal mortality rates across states and geopolitical zones in the country.  Before now, not many Nigerians are aware of the great disparity relating to the preference for a place of birth as some Nigerians had their place of birth at home, public and private healthcare facilities. The 2018 State of States report highlights the differences between Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba, the three major ethnic nationalities in Nigeria.  Based on data sourced from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) which was extensively analysed in the report, over 60 percent of live births among Hausas took place at home. Majority of the live births among Yorubas took place in public healthcare facilities while the preference among the Igbos is highest for private healthcare facilities.  Furthermore, the report shows that each state of the federation has its uniqueness for crimes. Particularly when analysed along drug seizures, most of the banned drugs were seized from the north particularly Kano and Plataea states. In the south, Edo and Ondo states topped the states where the highest drugs seizures took place by law enforcement agents. However, most of the females arrested in connection with banned drugs were from Edo, Bayelsa and Delta states.  Meanwhile, all is set for this year’s Governors’ Awards holding this Thursday, July 19 2018 at Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Dignitaries expected at the event include the former head of states, Abdusalam Abubakar; His imperial Majesty, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife and the Emir of Kano, His Royal Highness, Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, governors and their associates in public and private sectors and their family members.  The annual event is meant to celebrate governors who have distinguished themselves in different spheres of their states’ economies. The criteria for winners have been carefully selected to give an unbiased and verifiable outcomes as much as possible.  The result is that governors who have distinguished themselves in different areas of governance are singled out for recognition and celebration. This year’s BusinessDay Good Governance and Competitiveness Awards will come with a surprise reward for the best performing governor.  We are motivated to do this because the policies, actions and inactions of state governments have a significant impact on the business environment and performance of businesses, particularly the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) which are the engine room of economic growth. Red carpet opens by 6pm.