With just five months left to the deadline, banks in Ghana are racing to meet the new capital requirement prescribed by the Bank of Ghana, the apex monetary authority in Ghana. Last year, the bank regulator increased the minimum capital threshold to GH¢400 million ($84 million) from GH¢120 million requirement ($25 million), a sharp increase of around 233 percent.
All 34 licensed commercial banks in Ghana are required to have the required minimum capital latest 31st Dec 2018.
According to Bloomberg, only 15 out of the 34 banks are close to meeting the new capital requirements ahead of the December deadline. Amongst these 15 banks, six have met the requirement while the other nine are approaching the door step.
The policy move is to strengthen the sector and encourage lending in the second largest economy in West Africa. Ecobank Research estimated last year that based on Q4 2016 banks financial statements, the industry would needed to raise at least GH¢9 billion ($1.88 billion) in order to comply.
As expected, the sector’s readiness to raise the required capital threshold is increasingly looking skewed towards the larger Tier 1 balance sheets.
There are two recapitalization avenues available to commercial banks to consider which include, capitalizing revenue reserves and selling new shares to existing shareholders or new shareholders via private or public market(s).
Speaking on this Bank of Ghana Governor Ernest Addison said, the remaining 18 lenders who are yet to secure the fresh capital investment may likely merge with one another to increase their capital base.
The following banks are already seriously discussing a merger; BSCI Ghana Ltd, Premium Bank Ghana and GN Bank.
New update by Ecobank Research asserted that based on Q4 2017 balance sheet positions, the 18 banks, which were below the GH¢400mn target and lacked sufficient capitalizable reserves, will need to raise a total of GH¢5.0bn (equivalent of USD1bn) in order to comply.
If the deadline date is not extended, the future of these 18 banks hangs in the balance. Non-compliance from lenders could trigger three scenarios, which according to reports by Ecobank Research include, acquisitions, in cases where the acquirer sees sufficient synergies with the acquirer; horizontal and vertical mergers involving two or more entities; and downgrade of banking license to other categories – most notably savings and loans, and leasing and mortgage.
Upon implementation of the GH¢400mn minimum core capital requirement, analysts expect that return-on-equity (ROE) will plummet by as much as 50 percent in local currency terms primarily due to high denominator effects.
However, we expect banks to be bigger and healthier with the implementation of the new policy. While this policy is a headache for commercial banks, the M&A frenzy and fund raising that will occur over the next six months in the banking space will be a big boost to investment banking business this year and possibly next year.  ABIMBOLA HASSAN & EMEKA UCHEAGA 