While overall adoption of artificial intelligence remains low among businesses (about 20% upon our last study), senior executives know that AI isn’t just hype. Organizations across sectors are looking closely at the technology to see what it can do for their business. As they should — we estimate that 40% of all the potential value that can created by analytics today comes from the AI techniques that fall under the umbrella “deep learning,” (which utilize multiple layers of artificial neural networks, so-called because their structure and function are loosely inspired by that of the human brain). Through an in-depth examination of more than 400 actual AI use cases across 19 industries and nine business functions, we’ve discovered that an adage proves most useful in answering the question of where to put AI to work: “Follow the money.” The business areas that traditionally provide the most value to companies tend to be the areas where AI can have the biggest impact. In retail organizations, for example, marketing and sales has often provided significant value. In advanced manufacturing, by contrast, operations often drive the most value. Combined, we estimate that these use cases make up more than two-thirds of the entire AI opportunity. Another way business leaders can home in on where to apply AI is to simply look at the functions that are already taking advantage of traditional analytics techniques. We found that the greatest potential for AI to create value is in use cases where neural network techniques could either provide higher performance than established analytical techniques or generate additional insights and applications. We don’t want to come across as naive cheerleaders. Even as we see economic potential in the use of AI techniques, we recognize the tangible obstacles and limitations. Obtaining data sets that are sufficiently large and comprehensive enough to feed the voracious appetite that deep learning has for training data is a major challenge. So, too, is addressing the mounting concerns around the use of such data, including security, privacy and the potential for passing human biases onto AI algorithms. While businesses must remain vigilant and responsible as they deploy AI, the scale and beneficial impact of the technology on businesses, consumers, and society make pursuing opportunities worth a thorough investigation. 