Aviation operators and experts in Nigeria have called on the government to invest in safety infrastructure to attract investments that could grow the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
Aviation currently provides 93,000 jobs and contributes 0.2 percent to Nigeria’s GDP. These contributions, they suggest, can improve if the government will create an enabling environment for the operators and provide a deliberate policy for businesses in aviation to thrive.
Speaking during its 2018 summit and Awards put together by the Association of Foreign Airlines Representative in Nigeria (AFARN), Idris Yakubu, managing director, Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO), said, “The safety of infrastructure in Nigeria cannot be compared with those in most African countries.”
Yakubu, who was represented by Kelechi Amaechi, head of commercial in NAHCO, said if aviation was top notch in a country, it would attract tourism, adding that government should begin to focus on internally generated revenues to attract foreign exchange.
He stressed that investment in human resources and quality professionals would attract investment in the sector.
Basil Agboarumi, acting managing director of Skyway Aviation Handling Company Limited (SAHCOL), who also spoke at the event, emphasised on the need to operate safely or risk losing the confidence of investors, who would rather prefer to patronise other alternatives rather than operate in an unsafe environment.
“When there are unsafe practices in the industry, it leads investors to other sectors such as Maritime, and this will affect not just the sector but the country’s economy,” Agboarumi said.
Also speaking, Obi Mbanuzuo, accountable manager/CEO of Dana Airline Limited, said the GDP of the country could also be enhanced by improving safety awareness and consciousness.
Mbanuzuo said operators must work with the government to ensure there was a provision of safety equipment to facilitate and provide efficient services to the passengers.
Hadi Sirika, minister of state for aviation, disclosed while it was a fact that air transport would continue to play a key role in promoting economic activities, the point remained that aviation practice in Nigeria was on the path of growth and government was making concerted efforts to ensure that issues likely to inhibit steady growth in the industry were nipped in the bud.
He noted that despite these efforts, the industry was still faced with myriads of challenges of which finance and safety top the charts and which the present government was making efforts to address. Sirika, who was represented by Akin Olateru, the commissioner, Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB), said, “Aviation being one of the pillars of global economic trade, points to the fact that by the year 2034, eight of the fastest growing markets in percentage terms will be in Africa of which Nigeria remains a major force for to her population on the continent and will thus continue to have a fair share of the growing market regionally.”