Going by the outstanding performance that was recorded in both the top and bottom line of one of Nigeria’s leading players in the pharmaceutical and health care space, Neimeth International, questions are being raised on whether this could translate into increasing investors’ appetite for its shares.
The drug maker saw a positive growth trajectory, reporting a profit after Tax of N31.7 million in the third quarter of 2018 after it recorded a loss of N63.4 million in the same period last year, according to figures obtained from its nine month unaudited financial statement.
Revenue generated by the company also saw a 45.2 percent increase from N314.9 million in 2017 to N457.4 million in 2018, with 99 percent of the revenue generated from pharmaceuticals, while 1 percent came from animal health. The finance cost also decreased by 45 percent to N18.9 million from as high as N35 million in 2017
Of this revenue figure, 98 percent came from its Nigeria arm, while 2 percent of the revenue generated was from the Ghana segment of the company Neimeth pharmaceutical starts a new financial year November of every year. Thus while other firms in the industry might be in their 2nd quarter or half year of operation, Neimeth books will be for a nine month or Q3 period.
The stock has a one year return of -51.14 percent, according to data compiled by BusinessDay, with its share price touching its peak at N0.96 around 18th January 2018, but currently trading at its lowest price yesterday at N0.43.
Neimeth Int’l pharmaceutical share price has fallen -42.67 per cent this year, underperforming the NSE All share index at -4.96 percent. It has a market capitalization of N742.398 million.
Analysts say the result posted by the firm might increase investors’ appetite for the firm’s shares thereby making the firm share price to rally.
On what could have triggered the company’s profit for the third quarter, Johnson Chukwu, the MD of Cowry Asset Limited said the fall in the company’s finance cost as well as administrative expenses aside from the growth in its turnover, brought about an improved performance for the company. “The finance cost reduction was as a result of either the company paying back its loan or the revision of their interest cost. This shows the company’s efficiency in cost. Hence, for the company to finance its debt, money was raised from the capital market but at a lower rate,” Chukwu said in a phone response to BusinessDay. “Furthermore, there is a high tendency that the recent profit of the company will have a positive impact on their share capital.” Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc has been in operation for 40 years in Nigeria. The company is currently into manufacturing, marketing, and distribution of Pfizer brands of pharmaceutical and veterinary products in tablets, capsules, ointment/cream, powder, injectables, and oral liquid forms.  Cynthia Ikwuetoghu, Michael Ani & Jonathan Aderoju 