Wife of the President, Aisha Buhari, is set to host African Women in Leadership Organisation (AWLO) to brainstorm on women in leadership and business during a series of events to mark the 10th Anniversary of the organization in Abuja. A statement issued by the founder of the organization, Elisha Attai, made available to BusinessDay on Saturday, noted that the event which holds from July 19 to July 21, 2018 at the Yar’ Adua Centre, Abuja is aimed at providing a platform for Africa women to “network, brainstorm, team up, have one voice, and initiate a movement for their development.” It also disclosed that leaders and facilitators, who will be attending include; Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, Governor Henry Siriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, as well as Samira Bawumia and Julie Okah-Donli. The statement stressed that the conference with the theme “Creating Trans-generational Impact through Innovative Leadership”, will honour Jewel-Howard Taylor, Vice President of Liberia as the Keynote Speaker. It added that this will give African women the opportunity to improve and create opportunities for themselves. “It is also a movement of African women’s relevance, women teaming up, forming a force, in one voice, and initiating a movement. They are improving themselves and creating opportunities for themselves, working together and creating solutions for Africa. “In a patriarchal society where women leaders are emerging, AWLO seeks to fan the flames of budding leaders. AWLO is identifying opportunities for women in leadership; removing barriers, challenging women, and channeling their leadership potential. We hope for women to ‘own a seat at the table. “Women in Leadership’ is still untapped because it is reserved for a few women who are in leadership positions. For us leading is an attitude, and we want more women to imbibe it,” the statement said. According to AWLO, another high point of the 10th Anniversary is the unveiling and decoration of ‘100 Amazons’ profiled in the book AFRICAN WOMEN OF WORTH – CELEBRATING 100 AMAZONS VOL 1 by AWLO Founder; Elisha Attai . “This is a compendium of women who have risen above the setbacks that beset women in Africa to become shining examples in their field. Their biographies can be peeked at elishaattai.com/book,” the statement added. It further disclosed that another goal of the event is to engage decision makers for the right policies and opportunities for women and thereafter, create a communiqué for implementable actions. It added that it will engage key decision makers such as business owners, heads of government, policy makers, institutions and government agencies to propagate the right agenda to favor women’s leadership.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja