To address the nation’s energy crises, electricity distribution companies must be viable and stable, through generation of incomes from value added services. James Agada, the chief executive officer, CWG made the remark during a seminar on resolving energy crises in the country with the theme “Using Value Added Service To Solve Energy Crisis”. CWG recently got approval from the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), as a Meter Asset Provider (MAP), and to participate in the distribution and installation of prepaid meters. Agada noted that traditional business model of electricity distribution companies is no longer very attractive to be depended upon for sales of electricity in Sub Saharan Africa. But however noted that the assets needed for, and generated from the distribution business could creates secondary revenue models that can justify additional investments which are capable of strengthening the discos business. The CWG boss explained several revenue generating means that the distribution companies can explore that were ordinarily not captured in the traditional business of the discos. The first he said was for Distribution Companies to leverage her right of way to help communication companies install high speed internet services directly to homes. A more futuristic looking distribution company according to him can utilise the benefit of her right of way to install fiber to home and rent out the capacity to content and service providers. These rights of way he further noted have been cited as big impediments to the growth of broadband in Nigeria, India and other emerging fixed and vary from location to location, making it extremely difficult for broadband infrastructure to be built out. Another sources of revenue that the discos can leverage on according to him is on the poles, towers and ducts, which the lease out for the use of smart city operators or broadband providers, telcos and other providers of wireless communication. On Customer Address Information (CAI), Agada said two separate revenues open up here for the discos – they can provide some address lookup services for her customers, they can ask customers to use their reference numbers for address and then offer routing service to logistics and delivery companies. The discos can also operate her own logistics company and utilise her addressing information to deliver packages faster and more efficiently especially in areas where the formal addressing codes are not applicable. He noted also that the disco can partner with FinTechs and be able to provide loans quickly and effectively. The disco can also provide these input to credit bureau’s for a fee. Discos can also use their data as proxies for economic activity and publish indices which can be followed and used by economic analysts and reporters for a fee. The Meters at customer premises is another sources of revenue generation for the discos. According to him, it can serve as a hub for home automation allowing for remote control of home appliances and security equipment. The meter can also serve as a set top box for the delivery of video content either wirelessly or via fibre on the transmission network. The meter can also serve as a WiFi hot spot in the home or office. Of course this kind of meter will not be your traditional electricity consumption meter but must be designed specifically for that purpose. Electricity distribution has been a major headache in Nigeria and several African countries. In June this year, The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) approved CWG alongside seven other firms to participate in the distribution and installation of prepaid meters. This approval provided an opportunity for CWG to approach major DISCOs to be positioned as their registered Smart Metering vendor; under the Smart Utilities Sector of CWG’s operations. Ease of ‘electricity payment’ has also been integrated into the BillsnPay platform, which is the Bills presentment & payment solution CWG also has within its stables. With the approval as a ‘MAP’; CWG is in partnership with IPP (Independent Power Project); supplying the meters for SURA, Ariaria (Abia) and Tejuoso markets.  MICHEAL ANI 