Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Saturday in Dubai continued Nigeria’s trade diplomacy, wooing investors with attractive investment benefits from policy initiated by the current administration. The Vice President who was addressing top players at the the Dubai Professional Business Summit, said Nigeria’s overarching goal is to make the country a major global investment destination by continually implementing improvements and reforms in business environment that will be visible. “Our vision is a dramatic improvement in Nigeria’s business environment, with increased cross-border trading, increased productivity across key economic sectors, and an improved business environment that is attractive to both domestic and foreign investors – where policies are predictable and consistent, where public and civil servants act as partners and facilitators, not obstacles or adverse regulators.” He declared that one of the most important economic policy decisions taken by President Muhammadu Buhari, was to do all that was possible to improve Nigeria’s business environment and make it more attractive to investors on an incremental basis. Federal government had in the last two years in the wake of unstable crude oil prices embarked on economic reforms that targets agriculture, manufacturing, services and other non-oil economic activity. These were the fulcrum of the trade diplomacy in Dubai as the Vice President listed efforts including the Ease of Doing Business Reforms under the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council ( PEBEC) In February 2017, the present government of Nigeria, launched the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) 2017-2020, conceptualized to place the Nigerian economy on the path to stronger, more sustainable and inclusive growth. The benefits has become manifest as growth in Q1 2018, stood at 1.95%, with a projection to grow by up to 3% over this year, on stronger oil prices, stable production, increased non-oil output and foreign exchange availability. Inflation has also fallen to 11.60% In May, 2018, from 16 consecutive months of 18.72% in January 2017” Osinbajo listed other benefits to include Foreign investment inflow rising “from $908.2m in Q1 2017 to $4.1billion in Q3 2017 over 150% growth from Q1 2017. Total fresh capital inflow in 2017 was $12,228,24billion growth of 138.6% in 2017.” He declared that government has removed restrictions on ownership and guaranteed 100% repatriation of invested funds, a stable foreign exchange market, combined with rising income levels. “Nigeria’s external reserves have risen to a four-year high of $47.8 billion on 14 May 2018, up 55% over 15 May 2017, our fundamentals are looking good, and the ERGP is being implemented to keep the economy on the path of sustainable economic growth and global competitiveness.” “If you ever have reason to doubt the investment case for Africa, all you need do is look at China with its over US$60 billion worth of investments earmarked for Africa in 2018, a sizable portion of which will be directed at Nigeria from all indications.” The Vice President who sees investments in Nigeria as a win, win situation noted further that
“The case for investing in Nigeria is a compelling one. And most of us here are already familiar with the story. For instance, as we strive to diversify our economy away from oil, strengthen our institutions and our infrastructure, Nigeria is poised to be the fastest growing African economy and the world’s 14th largest economy by 2050” “This becomes even more compelling as we are the most populous African nation in the world, and by other demographic projections, we are to be the 3rd largest country in the world, by 2050. This means that Nigeria is the consumption demand market and the labour supply market of the future, as far as Africa is concerned and as far as most of the world is concerned” “Therefore Nigerian cities like Abuja, Kano, Lagos and Port Harcourt are attractive investment destinations for capital, skills and technology, connecting Africa to the rest of the world. Osinbajo said the country has commenced the process of concessioning its major international airports, with a view to attracting world-class investors and of course, world-class operators and the creation of a new national carrier – NigeriaAir – which will be owned and run by the private sector, with the government having only a notional 5% stake in that enterprise. “These initiatives are aimed at consolidating Nigeria’s position as the regional hub for trade and investment. Taking our hospitality sector and budding tourism drive as examples, about 1.8million international travellers spend two nights on average at Nigeria’s estimated 10,000 hotel rooms yearly. This generated about $210million in revenue for the industry, which barely reflects on Nigeria’s $500 billion GDP size. Nigeria’s hotel industry alone is projected to grow by double digits up to 2020, as the sector bounces back post-recession to one of the fastest growing in the world, the possibilities for investors is significant.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja