The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, on Thursday confirmed that he has been interrogated by the police over his alleged involvement in the April 5, 2018 bank robbery in Offa, Kwara State.
The interrogation, according to Saraki’s media office, took place at the Senate President’s office at 1.40pm on Thursday.
A short statement signed by the Special Assistant on New Media to the President of the Senate, Olu Onemola, reads: “Further to the invitation to the Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, by the Police on July 23, 2018, and his written response to them on July 24, 2018 on why he could not see them that day — today at about 1:40pm, the Senate President met with a team of investigators on the Offa Robbery case in his office.
“Saraki, used the opportunity to reiterate the fact that he has nothing to do with either the robbery incident on April 5, 2018, or any other criminal activity.”
Thursday’s interrogation of Saraki in his office by the Police came as a direct fall out of the Senate President’s earlier request to that effect.
Meanwhile the Chairman, Senate Committee on Federal Capital Territory, Dino Melaye has reportedly been kidnapped by unknown gunmen on his way to Kogi from Abuja. The development comes less than forty-eight hours after his defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP).
Ben Murray-Bruce, who chairs the Senate Committee on Privatization confirmed the lawmaker’s abduction on his Twitter handle on Thursday.
He disclosed that Melaye’s brother made the revelation to him as he was on his way from Abuja to his home state, Kogi.
“I have just been informed by Moses Melaye, @dino_melaye’s brother, that Dino has been abducted by unknown persons in a Toyota Sienna that blocked their car and overpowered them on their way to Kogi to answer to Dino’s court case. Let’s be on the watch out. Will keep you updated,” he tweeted via his Twitter handle @benmurraybruce.
It would be recalled that Melaye alongside 13 other senators defected from APC to PDP on Tuesday on the floor of the upper legislative chamber.
Responding to the second invitation of the Police to appear at its station on Monday, Saraki had on Tuesday written to the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to send a team of investigators to his office to carry out the investigation. The letter read: “I wish to acknowledge your letter, ref CR: 3000/IGPSEC/ABJ/VOL.,131/707, dated 23rd of July 2018.
“For the record, I should mention that received your letter at 8:30pm on Monday 23rd July, inviting me for the next day at 8am. The two lawyers whose advice I needed were in Calabar and Lagos and had to travel to Abuja today. As you are aware, the Deputy President of the Senate was unable to leave his residence this morning to preside over the senate having being prevented from doing so by security agents. If he had been able to preside over the senate, I would have honoured your invitation. The absence of both presiding officers would have voided the sitting of the senate. This would have been damaging to National interest, particularly in the light of very important legislative matters that needed to be addressed in view of the imminent recess of the National Assembly. These included consideration of the Electoral Bill, which was incidentally passed today. “You will recall that the President had earlier directed as a courtesy to this office, that in the event of any request for further information from me, you should either send your personnel to my office or obtain a written response from me. I need to place on record as well, that following the incident of being harassed and threatened at my residence by the police early this morning, I am deeply concerned over my physical security. I request you therefore, to please assign your personnel who need information on this matter, to meet me in my office, immediately after plenary today, or tomorrow or any other day at your convenience.”  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 