There are strong indications that the military is closing-in on leaders of a new violent sect, Hakika Islamic. BusinessDay gathered from highly-placed military sources, that the intelligence architecture of the Defence Headquarters, was being fully deployed against the budding extremist group, with a view to nipping its activities in the bud. The thinking in military quarters is that, now is the best time to deal with the potential threat to national security, since available intelligence indicates that the commanders were still on recruitment drive. “Truth is that the military has refrained from discussing them on the pages of newspapers, to deny them assess to well-coordinated strategies meant to take them out in their infancy. “They must be denied freedom of existence, and the best way to achieve that, is now that they are still struggling to do recruitment”, one of the sources said in confidence. Meanwhile, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ), has said that the group and its activities were being monitored. The acting Director of Defence Information (DDI),John Agim, a brigadier general,  who disclosed this to  BusinessDay in a telephone conversation, confirmed that the military was keeping its strategies
close to its chest. Agim said,”It is a new group, and whatever we are saying about them in the media, they are hearing and they will restrategize . “We don’t want to give any information about them. If we begin to talk, they will know that we know so much about them,  and they will begin to  elude us. “It is a new group and, we are monitoring to see how we can stop them before they become a problem.” Hakika Islamic is a new sect  headed by one Yahaya Ibrahim who is currently recruiting both men and women especially the youths. The group, which is believed to operate from Ngwurore,in Adamawa state and Toto, in Nasarawa State, has series of controversial doctrines like,promotion of adultery and formication, non adherence to praying five times a day, non- observance of Ramadan fast among others.