National chairman of the National Unity Party (NUP) Perry Opara, has revealed that the recently launched grand coalition of about 40 political parties under the aegis of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) to unseat President Muhammadu Buhari and his All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019, is the brainchild of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Opara told BusinessDay in an exclusive chart on Wednesday that the former President is disturbed by the state of the nation and therefore disappointed with the performance of the President Buhari’s administration in terms of the worsening economy and the increasing insecurity threatening the unity of the country. He stressed that the former President decided to lead the coalition to save the Nigerian state from total crisis adding that Obasanjo has the capacity, the stature and the connection to lead the coalition to victory in the 2019 general election. “The catalyst for coalition in Nigeria is former President Oluesgun Obasanjo. Obasanjo is the man that started preaching many months ago that there is the need to form a coalition. The signing of the MoU by CUPP members is the consummation of this clarion call by Obasanjo for a coalition. That is why some of us who have been political sons of Obasanjo are the ones that participated in the signing ceremony. Some of us who are also political sons of Obasanjo are the people urging Obasanjo to lead the CUPP. And I am happy to announce to Nigerians that he has accepted to lead the CUPP to rescue Nigeria. “I want to tell you that Obasanjo is the big masquerade of the CUPP. He has the capacity and impeccable credentials in leadership to lead the coalition, and he is a good father, he listens to both the old and the young. Obasanjo is a political oracle that must be consulted in Nigeria,” Opara said. On the allegation that Obasanjo bestrides the Nigerian political landscape because of his selfish interest, Opara debunked the insinuation, stressing  that what Obasanjo is looking for is who will better the lot of Nigerians  adding that Obasanjo is interested in reducing the hardship and the killings in the land. Opara noted that CUPP is a loose alliance that will field one presidential candidate in 2019, saying that Obasanjo does not want one political party to dominate the coalition in order to create room for other political parties to be given a place in the coalition. He pointed out that the objective of the CUPP is to rescue Nigeria from the brink of collapse saying that “over the last three years Nigerians feel that we are sliding, we are drifting, the hardship in land is too much, there is insecurity of lives and property and we think that there must be need to change that scenario. That was why political parties irrespective of their leaning, decided to come together to form an alliance, to form the government of national unity. And that government will allow all registered political parties to benefit from governance. They are to nominate people to head various departments and agencies of government when we win. “We are at the stage of setting up committees, we have not agreed on strategy to unseat the current government so we are setting up committees to develop blueprint, contact and mobilization, strategy and committees on organizing the elections. “We need Obasanjo in CUPP because we don’t want anybody to derail, we don’t want people to make promises and renege on their promises. So we want someone like Obasanjo we can only complain to. We have not agreed on the political party to use, we have not agreed on the presidential candidate but what we want is a man and the platform that can win the election.  In a very short while, we will set the modalities for sharing the spoils of office and the candidate that will defeat the incumbent. “We need a man who can win election in the South and in the north, we need a bridge builder, a man who is going to be a leader of Nigeria and not just a president but a man who is going to guarantee prosperity and protection of lives and property, which is the greatest challenge Nigeria has now. And if you look at the faces of Nigerians there is too hardship in the land. We want a man who will bring prosperity to Nigeria,” he said. The CUPP includes the main opposition party in the country, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), The National Conscience Party (NCP) the National Unity Party (NUP), the African Democratic  Congress (ADC), the Labour Party (LP), the Social Democratic Party(SDP), the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), which is the breakaway faction of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) among others. The parties signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in Abuja to mobilise their resources even as they expressed determination to wrestle power from President Muhammadu Buhari and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), which they accused of poor, nepotistic and visionless leadership that has brought nothing but hardship and hopelessness to the Nigerian people in the last three years.