The Nigerian Veterinary Medical Association has solicited media partnership towards educating Nigerians on profitable ways of livestock and poultry keeping in the country. Dr Faruk Tambuwal, Chairman of the association’s 55th Annual Conference publicity sub-committee made the call on Thursday when he visited the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) office in Sokoto. Tambuwal said the visit was part of the association’s engagement with the media not only on the conference coming up  between Oct. 22 and 27 in Sokoto, but also on the gains in livestock farming. He said that professionals would use the opportunity offered by the conference to also proffer solutions toward ending farmers/headsmen clashes, and ways to transform traditional livestock keeping to a modern one. According to him, livestock business is lucrative and remains a huge agricultural practice that adds value to the economy, including jobs creation. On the conference, Tambuwal said it has as its theme, `The Veterinary Profession and Emerging Global Challenges’ and would also discuss emerging diseases, climate change, health and sustainable development. The committee chairman added that other topics to be discussed include reforming the livestock industry for national security and economic prosperity as well as the challenges of antimicrobial drug resistance. Tambuwal said Sokoto remains home to Veterinary professionals and has a specialised publications as well as the Usman Danfodio University Veterinary Teaching Hospital with 68 full time Veterinarians. He added that the state government also has 77 Veterinary officers besides five private veterinary centres as well as numerous institutions and private farms. Responding, NAN State Correspondent in Sokoto, Malam Habibu Harisu, thanked the association for the visit and assured that NAN would continue to cover its activities in view of their importance to social and economic development of the country. Harisu explained that NAN being a leading News Agency in Africa is always ready to partner with government, organizations and institutions for the common good of all.