The continued delay by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to transfer Visafone’s 800 MHz (Megahertz) spectrum to MTN, several years after the acquisition of the only Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) in the country is, in several ways, hindering the speed of broadband penetration and the deployment of high speed Long Term Evolution (LTE) service in Nigeria, analysts have said. LTE is a type of 4G that delivers the fastest connection for a mobile internet experience – up to 10 times faster than 3G and is not the same as just 4G. In 2016, Visafone communications Limited with a Universal Access Service License (UASL), applied to the telecoms regulator for an approval to effect a change in its shareholding structure by transferring 100 percent of its shares to MTN Nigeria. Having fulfilled the conditions stipulated in the ‘Approval-In-Principle’, the NCC, in line with its procedure granted a ‘Final-Approval’ to Visafone for the change in its shareholding structure. Visafone then applied for approval to transfer its license to MTN, so as to allow the use of its spectrum for the roll out of 4G LTE (4th generation long term evolution) service and, in turn, boost broadband service penetration. However, the NCC is yet to take a decision on whether or not the request for transfer of license would be granted. “The industry is still waiting for the regulator to get back to us its decision as to what will happen to the Visafone license. It has still not been transferred to MTN up till this date,” Olusola Teniola, President, Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, told BusinessDay in a telephone interview. Although the NCC admitted that the matter is of significant interest to relevant stakeholders in the telecoms industry, and therefore held a public inquiry recently in order to elicit comments from the general public, especially telecommunications operators, Umar Garba Danbatta, Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) of the NCC said that “the commission has to embark on re-planning of some of its Frequency bands in order to reap the benefits of effective utilization of spectrum as well as improve operational efficiency and regulatory excellence.” Danbatta said that the commission re-planned the use of 800MHz band to accommodate technology development in the telecom industry in 2013, and new spectrum assignments were conveyed to the operators according to their spectrum holdings in the 800MHz band. “Subsequent to the re-planning of the band, Visafone, one of the operators, who had earlier been assigned 10MHz in the 800MHz band applied to the commission for transfer of its license and spectrum to MTN.” Tony Ojobo, Director, Public Affairs NCC, told Businessday that the NCC has not yet taken a decision on the application by Visafone to transfer its license to MTN. “The NCC has only approved the shareholding structure by 100 percent and not a transfer of license,” he said. Recall that in July 2016, Etisalat, now 9mobile brought a legal action against MTN Nigeria and Visafone Ltd. challenging MTN’s use of the 800MHZ spectrum following the acquisition of Visafone. Even after the commission approved a new flexible regulation for trading spectrum and transfer of license rights and obligation between operators in order to increase broadband infrastructure roll-out and deepen penetration levels, the NCC seems to be taking its time with the decision to approve the 800MHz spectrum to MTN, as other operators have raised objections. Airtel in its submission at the public enquiry stated that “this arrangement will not only increase MTN’s market power, but will substantially lessen competition in the mobile voice and data market segments of the industry, which could lead to MTN becoming a monopoly.” 9mobile submitted that MTN currently holds 38 percent of the total spectrum assigned in the telecommunications industry while the other ten active operators jostle for the remaining 62 percent. It stated that “the cost of rolling out LTE services on 800MHz is 25 percent more cost effective compared to 2.6GHz spectrum.” MTN however says that the concerns raised by the different operators are merely assumptions that have not been substantiated based on the fact that “MTN cannot be said to have engaged or be engaging in any acts under the Nigerian Communication Act 2003 or Competition Practice Regulations 2007 that constitute or may result in substantial lessening of completion.” In explaining this point, MTN noted that access to spectrum is “not prohibited under the Act or any of its subsidiary legislations. It further stated that other operators such as Smile Communications Limited and Intercellular Limited currently operate on different parts of the 800MHz spectrum and MTN is merely exploring the opportunity available to it to get access to this spectrum.” BusinessDay gathers that MTN has been unable to re-farm its 1.8GHz spectrum considering that it might pose a negative impact of its 2G services. Although MTN has 38 percent of the entire spectrum holding in the country, the company says that the 2.6GHz spectrum which it acquired after winning the bid by NCC, constitutes the largest percentage. “As such, MTN has been unable to deploy LTE services using the 2.6GHz spectrum,” the company said. Analysts say that the curtail in rights to deploy this technology is in ways hindering Nigeria’s digital development as countries such as USA, Austria, Germany, Japan, Norway, Finland, Denmark and a host of others have commercially launched LTE networks.  