The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that it has so far registered 10,292,647 ( ten million, two hundred and ninety two thousand, six hundred and forty seven) voters in the Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) exercise, which commenced in April 2017. INEC chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, said this on Wednesday, while making his remarks at the regular meeting with the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) in Abuja even as he urged those yet to register to do so before the commission will officially end the exercise on August 17, 2018. “At this meeting, our discussion will focus mainly on the ongoing Continuous Voters Registration (CVR) exercise. After wide ranging consultations with stakeholders, the current exercise will be suspended on 17th August. So far, a total of 10, 292,647 Nigerians have been registered as at Friday July 13, 2018. “The Commission has been giving periodic update to the stakeholders. Beyond the CRV, this meeting will also strategize on the issue of uncollected Permanent Voters Card (PVCs). I wish to reassure all the registered voters that their PVCs will be available for collection before the 2019 general elections,” he said. The INEC boss noted that the commission has received nod to conduct bye-elections in some vacant positions across the country. “The commission has received the official declaration of vacancies from the National Assembly in respect of Bauchi South Senatorial District, Katsina North Senatorial District and the Lokoja/Koton Karfe Federal Constituency in Kogi State. A similar declaration was made by Cross River State House of Assembly in respect of Obudu1 State Constituency. Consequently, the commission is set to conduct bye-elections to fill the vacancies in the 4 constituencies which have a total of over 2 million registered voters spread across 3,355 polling units in 234 wards and 22 local government areas. “Consultation with stakeholders in the affected states are ongoing. Considering the requirements of the law that such elections shall be conducted by the commission within 30 days following the declaration of the vacancy, we are planning to conduct all the 4 elections on the same date. The detailed timetable and schedule of activities will be released on Friday this week. “These bye-elections will offer the commission yet another opportunity to fine-tune our processes and procedures in preparation for the September 22 Osun State Governorship election and ultimately the 2019 general elections. “we wish to once again reassure Nigerians that the commission will continue to improve the quality of our elections drawing from the lessons learnt from the collective experience of having conducted elections into 181 constituencies since the 2015 general elections made up of 6 Governorship elections, 11 Senatorial Districts, 23 Federal Constituencies, 73 State Constituencies and 68 Area Council Constituencies in the Federal Capital Territory,” he said.