The All Progressive Party ( APC) Chairman , Adams Oshiomhole has threatened to suspend Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige from the party for refusing to constitute the board of the National Social Insurances Trust Fund (NSITF) This is despite explanation by Ngige, that he was acting on President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive not to inaugurate the NSITF’s board. The Minister who acknowledged that Oshiomhole was an “interested party” as a former Chairman of NSITF Board before the last administration, disclosed that Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and House of Representatives have commenced separate investigations into the scandal. The letter read: “Our National Chairman, I am in receipt of a letter referenced APC/NHDQ/GEN-S/28/018/003 dated July 11, 2018, which was sent from your Office and received by me on July 12, 2018. Ordinarily I would not believe the letter was from you except for the barrage of media statements that came before I saw the letter. I read the contents of this letter with both amazement and utter disbelief. “Firstly, it is not true that I did refuse/neglect to inaugurate Members of the re-constituted Boards of Parastatals and Agencies under the supervision of my Ministry as alleged in your letter. The Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment has four (4) Parastatals namely – The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), National Directorate of Employment (NDE), National Productivity Centre (NPC), and Michael Imoudu Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS). Boards of the latter three (3) Agencies have been re-constituted and Members were inaugurated on March 8, 2018, in conformity with a Presidential directive. “All the three (3) Boards are currently operational. The only Agency left out was the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) which before the directive, had been enmeshed with major issues of corruption involving about Forty Eight Billion Naira (N48 Billion) comprising Federal Government and Employers’ contributions to the Employees’ Compensation Fund plus some non-remitted PAYE taxes, which were carted away through well perfected sleaze operation. This resulted in the Agency coming under the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) investigation/prosecution of members of the former Board and some of her serving Officials. But Oshiomhole while speaking with State House Correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, described Ngige’s refusal to inaugurate the board as the “ height of mischief” adding that “ if the President condones disrespect for his office, l will not condone disrespect for the party” According to Oshiomhole, “ If the minister refuse, we will suspend him from the party. You know we must return to internal discipline “For me it is the height of mischief for any minister, you cannot purport to be honourable minister and you act dishonourably and nobody is greater than the party. And if the President condones disrespect for his office, I will not condone disrespect for the party” “And when we expel the minister we will prevail on the president that he can’t keep in his cabinet people who have neither respect for his own decisions nor have respect for the party without which they would not have been ministers. The party chairman who noted that there are no independent candidate in the party, lamented that the are indiscipline within the party because people took advantage of President Buhari’s fatherly posture. “nobody, I emphasis no minister is above the party and they have taken undue advantage of the president’s fatherly disposition. “Now, it is the same green pen that made them minister that appointed these boards that they are refusing to swear in. He noted that is was absolutely illegal for a minister in a democracy to prey the powers of the board because the laws establishing those institutions are clear, that the boards have procedures to follow. “So, when a minister sits in his office to appropriate the powers of the board in a democracy, not in a dictatorship, award contracts that didn’t go though boards, those are clearly abuse of office for which they are liable. He debunked claims by Ngige that he is acting with the full support of President Buhari , adding that “ I convinced that what they are doing is not with the endorsement of Mr. President.
“Over the period they have tried to drop the president’s Name but I tell them it is the same authority that appoint these people. “So, we are informing them that it is either they comply to the president’s instructions or they comply with the party’s position or they go and administer outside the government. “We have respect for ministers but only to the extent that they recognize that they are a product of a political party and we are not negotiating that. If they did that in the past, under our leadership, we will not tolerate it. They either comply or we will expel them from the party. When we expel them we will find out how a government can keep a rebel in the cabinet. There is no question about that. Reacting to allegations that he was losing sleep over threats by members to dump the party, maintained that “ l don’t see any man of honour, who with his eyes opened, left PDP on the account of their gross mismanagement, abuse of the treasury and all of the crime that the PDP committed, I don’t see them whatever their irritations, that cannot be a justifications to return to that house. All we need to do is to play back their own tape about what PDP represents and why they left. “I still hold the view that you can’t vomit in the morning and covert it to lunch in the afternoon if you have honour. And that position still remains the same. He boasted that he does not deal with political mercenaries, adding “that remains my position” 