Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti state has accused the Police of assault. The governor was allegedly beaten, tear gassed and dragged on the floor by security men who had occupied the gates of the governor’s office since Tuesday when President Mohammadu Buhari came to the state for a mega rally of the All Progressive Congress (APC).  The governor who was bandaged on the neck and hands, managed to speak with teeming supporters who massed to the governor’s office to sympathize with him.  The governor suddenly fainted after briefly addressing the people and that further angered them as they cursed and rained verbal invectives on the opposition and candidate of the All Progressive Congress (APC), Kayode Fayemi.  Trouble reportedly started when Fayose, leading thousands of supporters in a victory walk he had announced to hold in Ado Ekiti some days ago, approached some stern looking armed policemen to demand why they were preventing people to mass at the campaign venue in Fajuyi pavilion.  Responding, security men allegedly teargassed him and many others, and shot sporadically in the air.  Fayose said: “I  was slapped by a policeman who kicked me and shouted at me, but I want you to be strong and be of great courage do not be discouraged, this battle must be won. They have come to occupy our land, this is not our democracy. I call on the international communities and relevant agencies, Ekiti is under siege. How can l be a governor of Ekiti state and be manhandled like this?  “I will go back to the hospital and rest. Be resolute stand with PDP and Eleka. I am having a lot of pains but I prefer to bear this pain because of you.” Fayose was later rushed to the intensive care unit of the state hospital after he fainted.  The State Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO), said he would send his reaction very soon but was yet to reply as at the time of filing this report.  The National Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Uche Secondus, alleged that Wednesday’s invasion of the Ekiti State Government House by security agents was an attempt to assassinate the governor, Ayo Fayose.  Secondus who condemned the blocking of Government House in Ado-Ekiti by security agents, described it as a ‘civilian coup’.  Addressing a press conference in Abuja Wednesday, he alleged plans by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government to use the 30,000 policemen deployed to the state, to intimidate the people.  The governorship election is billed for this Saturday.  “This, we have been informed, is part of the ‘order from above’, in line with the earlier boast by the Buhari-led APC, to “cage” Governor Fayose ahead of the July 14, 2018 Ekiti governorship election, so as to grant their agents a field day to rig the election.  “In fact, we have been made aware that the invasion was a plot to assassinate Governor Fayose and blame it on accidental discharge by one of the policemen.”  “The PDP marks this siege on an elected governor and a government house as a recipe for violence; a complete attack on our democratic order and direct assault on the corporate existence of Ekiti and her people as a federating part of our nation.”  The PDP chieftain accused security personnel deployed to the state of embarking on mass arrest and harassment of Ekiti citizens with the view to frightening and preventing them from participating in the election.  Also, he accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) of planning to rig the election in favour of APC, in connivance with security personnel deployed to the state.  This, he explained, is by smuggling in preloaded card reader machines and result sheets, which would be exchanged with APC agents.  He said: “The PDP is fully aware of the actors in this heinous plot including some directors in INEC, particularly in its Information Communication Technology (ICT) Department, who have been holding clandestine meetings with APC leaders.  “The PDP however states, in very clear and unequivocal terms, that all these machinations will end in vain as nobody, no matter the evil device used, be it harassment, threats, arrests or even murder, can subjugate the people of Ekiti State and forcefully take over their leadership in this election without their consent.  Meanwhile the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Operations, Habilal Joshak, has said the security details of important personalities in Ekiti will be withdrawn on Saturday to add to the credibility of the Ekiti governorship election holding on July 14.  The Police boss added that no party would be allowed to hold any political rally not approved by the police until the election is held.  Addressing journalists in Ado Ekiti on Wednesday, Joshak said he would work with Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG),  H.H. Karma and three other Commissioners of Police; Ali Janga , J.B. Kokumo and G.B. Umar, who will man each of the senatorial districts in the state. Joshak said they had contacted security details of Governor Fayose and the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Kayode Fayemi and other top government officials to report at 6 am at the Police Headquarters in Ado Ekiti on Saturday. “We won’t allow anybody to go to the Polling booth with armed men, this is a breach of the Electoral Act.”