Google has been fined $5 billion by the European Union (EU) regulators for the manner in which it pushes its search and web-browsing applications on smartphones and tablets operating the Android mobile system. EU officials said Google violated its antitrust laws through unfairly favouring its own services by forcing smartphone makers to pre-install Google apps like Chrome and Search in a bundle with its app store, Play. Google is also accused of paying large phone manufacturers and mobile network operators to only bundle Google search on their devices or sign agreements not to sell phones that run other modified or “forked” versions of Android. “Today, mobile internet makes up more than half of global internet traffic. It has changed the lives of millions of Europeans,” Margrethe Vestager, commissioner in charge of competition policy for the EU said in a statement. “Our case is about three types of restrictions that Google has imposed on Android device manufacturers and network operators to ensure that traffic on Android devices goes to the Google search engines.” The commission also issued a 90 days deadline for Google to put “an end in an effective manner” of its antitrust activities. The company will need to also stop preventing phone makers from using forked versions of Android, as the commission believes that Google has any credible evidence that Android forks would be affected by technical failures or fail to support apps. Google in a statement said it will appeal the EU commission’s decision. “Android has created more choice for everyone, not less,” the statement noted. “A vibrant ecosystem, rapid innovation, and lower prices are classic hallmarks of robust competition.” Google’s share price dropped 0.4 percent in premarket trade following the fine announcement. The EU investigation into Android began in 2015, two years after it received a complaint from FairSearch, which, at the time, included the likes of Microsoft and Nokia. The commission highlighted Apple’s compliance to antitrust laws by giving sufficient freedom to phone and application makers on its platform including Google itself. “The decision does not prevent Google from putting in place a reasonable, fair and objective system to ensure the correct functioning of Android devices using Google proprietary apps and services, without however affecting device manufacturers’ freedom to produce devices based on Android forks,” the commission said.