Terra Kulture Mydrim Gallery Art Auction (TKMG) – Nigeria’s Foremost Indigenous Art Auction House – celebrates Nigeria’s cultural heritage through the visual arts by focusing on the selection and sale of exquisite pieces at their annual art auction.
This year, TKMG Art Auction is set to hold its first ever competition to give two artists a chance of showing their works at the Lagos Art Auction 2018 while five semi-finalists will have their works featured on the Terra Kulture Art Gallery Instagram page.
Ugonna Ibe-Ejiogu, Curator Terra Kulture Art Gallery stated:
“I am very excited about Lagos Art Auction 2018, as we have an even stronger collection of works, a number of them have already been reserved. For the first time, as part of the program, we are giving two emerging artists the opportunity to showcase their work and benefit from expert critique by notable artists and seasoned collectors. While the selected works will not be up for sale at the auction, this will certainly be invaluable exposure for the finalists and we hope that it becomes a catalyst for their career growth.” To compete kindly follow the details below: Follow @terrakultureartgallery & @mydrim_gallery on Instagram,post a clear picture of your artwork on your Instagram page. Include the title, medium, year and description of your work and use #LagosArtAuction2018 & #tkmgauctionhouse in your caption Tag @terrakultureartgallery & @mydrim_gallery in your caption.
TKMG Auction House will choose 5 Semi-Finalists and their works will be featured on @terrakultureartgallery IG page.
The two artists with the highest number of likes will get the opportunity to showcase their work at the opening night preview of the Lagos Art Auction.
The Lagos Art Auction is set to hold its 9th auction on the 27th of July, 2018. The event will feature a carefully curated collection of some of West Africa’s most notable artists. Guests can register to attend the preview on the 20th of July here:  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/lagos-art-auction-2018-opening-night-cocktail-tickets-47505525305. And the auction on the 27th of July here: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/lagos-art-auction-2018-tickets-47563009241
The TKMG Auction is proudly sponsored by: Union Bank, Dorman Long, Unilever, with  Aspire Luxury Magazine
as the media partner.