Transsion, the owners of mobile phone brands Tecno, Infinix, and itel, is gunning for share of Africa’s bludgeoning e-payment space. Early this year, BusinessDay disclosed that the company could become one of the major players in the payment space alongside Google and WhatsApp, Techweez, a tech media outfit, recently has reported that it is possession of evidence which shows that Transsion through a joint venture with NetEase – a Chinese Internet technology company, is planning to launch a payment service called PalmPay. The service will be launched under a newly registered company, Transsnet Payment Limited. The new company, Transsnet is describing itself as a company that develops financial services for the mobile generation in Africa and aim to reach 100 million users within the next three years. Experts who have reacted to the report said the move could be very significant. “As the largest OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) in Africa, this could be significant. This could be a huge competition from the flanks of some fintech firms,” Ndubuisi Ekekwe, chairman, Fasmicro Group and technology scholar wrote in a post on LinkedIn. “If you have Tecno with a native (good) payment system, you may not bother to install a new payment application.” Transsion’s dominance of the smartphone market goes beyond Africa. A report of the first quarter smartphone shipments globally released by Canalys, a leading technology market analyst showed that Tecno, one of Transsion’s brands shipped a total of 2.8 million smartphones in the first three months of 2018, while iTel and Infinix shipped 2.0 million and 1.0 million smartphones respectively. The total combined shipment for Transsion Holdings currently stands at 5.8 million against 3.4 million for Samsung. Collectively, Tecno, iTel and Infinix which are all sub-brands of Transsion Holdings, controls over 38 per cent smartphone market share in Q1 2018, compared to 23 per cent of Samsung. Africa receives a signficant amount of the shipment given that the company prioritises affordability over luxury features. PalmPay when launched will offer services such as mobile loans as well as payment platform that allows users to send money to each other, pay for bills and buy airtime. The service could also include PalmPoint – a form of loyalty program to keep the customers engaged with the product. 