Carlos Figueredo, founder and CEO of Open Vector, was in Nigeria in June as part of the delegation led by Lord Mayor of London. He spoke to BusinessDay’s Frank Eleanya on his partnership with Open Banking Nigeria and the potential for financial inclusion, fintech and banks in the country.  What are you are doing in Nigeria, and why is it important?  I am part of the Lord Mayor delegation. It’s a diplomatic delegation to Nigeria, primarily to bring the concept of open banking, speak to various government officials and regulators, CEOs of banks and Fintechs about open banking. Open banking has already been established in Nigeria, through the Open Banking Nigeria and this team. They have realized what open banking can do for Nigeria. They have started it from the fintechs and going upwards instead of waiting for regulations to tell them to do it. So it is a fantastic way of initiating open banking different from the model that we did in the UK.  What I am here to do is to strengthen what has already kick started. But I have done it from top down by meeting with your vice president, key governors, ministers, CEOs in the Fintech community. I have brought that credibility, by bringing my own experience, my teams’ experience to explain what we can do.  This is why it is so important for Nigeria. If this initiative gets the support, Nigeria will become the first African country to embrace open banking.  In a layman’s term, what is open banking? Open banking is about giving the consumer power to be able to use his data to further enhance his search for new products and services. That is on the consumer side. On the Fintech and banking side, what it does is to allow them to work together to create those new products and services in a way that we never would have seen before. Today the banks and the Fintechs have to work somewhat independently; they interact to create products and services. What open banking does is it allows for a much standardized way of working together to create products and services.  If we look at it in layman’s terms it means that banks will have to share data, in a standardized format, and then Fintechs of all sizes can come in and look at that data. Based on that data, they create new products and services to benefit the consumer. For the consumer it means that they have the power of how that data is used. So we are the ones that provide consent as to how fintechs or banks use that data. This could potentially lower prices on existing products on services, because now there is competition between the banks. The data is now available, it is standardized, and it is free to see. But it means that because of that relationship, new product and services will come out that otherwise consumers would have never seen. It also it means that the people who otherwise will be seen as unbanked would potentially be banked through those new products and services.  Tell us about Open Vector, what you are doing and how it relates to financial inclusion  Open Vector was born from the open banking implementation entity in the UK, which was the first open banking initiative globally. Open Vector comprise of all of the key senior members that was part of the open banking initiative. So we bring their experience and their credibility into Open Vector which is a commercial entity. We then take it to other countries and regions to help the governments, banks and fintechs to embrace open banking globally.  What is the relationship between open banking and EU GDPR? Open banking, GDPR and PSD2 are closely linked. GDPR is the initiative that was adopted in the EU. It is the consent mechanism used to allow the consumer gain control of his data. It is a data protection component of security. So when a consumer says “wait a minute, you have been telling me for years not to give out my data and all of a sudden you are asking me to give my data, how am I going to protect myself?” GDPR is the technical component that gives the person the consent on how that information is going to be used. It is also an incredibly important component that we will also introduce here in Nigeria. The benefit that you have is that you already have some component of biometrics like your BVN and other elements that will certainly help us to integrate this GDPR element very nicely  What are the major flash points that you identified for the UK market and how can we implement that here in Nigeria, knowing that these are two separate markets? One thing that we are very humble about in Open Vector is that we are not here to tell you that we did it the best way and everything has to be done how we did it in the UK. The reason we are so passionate about what we are doing is that we want to help countries embrace open banking and avoid the mistakes and the issues we had in the UK. We have realized a much bigger social and financial inclusion opportunities for other countries that weren’t in the original plan in the UK. The key aspects of this is to show that this initiative is done in a collaborative way between the government regulators, the banks and the fintechs and its done in a timely manner that is not rushed and is not driven necessarily by regulations, but it is done in a collaborative way, I think that is the key aspect of the lesson learn from the UK.  The financial inclusion numbers in Nigeria is not so impressive. How far reaching is open banking for Nigerians beyond Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja? The opportunity of open banking is a mythology, and what it does is that because of a regulatory framework and through standardization it will allow for the fintechs and banks to work together to find much more creative innovation to reach the north for example, in ways that we don’t know yet. If you look back at cell phones, did we ever think that we would go from old Nokia or Blackberries to what we do today with our apps? That’s because the likes of Apple realized that they needed to open up the app platforms for creative people to create new products and services, which we never would have thought of. We have all of our world on our phone, so if you think about the same thing through this legal frame work that you can have banks and fintechs working in ways that we have never thought of to reach people that we otherwise wouldn’t have thought of, we have some theoretical business cases of what we that could look like.  You have spoken to some Nigerian banks. Knowing they are going to be important in the implementation of open banking, what’s their disposition? Surprisingly, I think Nigeria is going to run a lot faster than the UK. The lesson learnt from the UK then again was, this was driven by the regulators of the banking sector in the UK. So there wasn’t a template. There was never a mention of open banking globally. We were the first. So suddenly the banks by the market authority that open banking would be created, that they would have to comply, to standardize, that they would have to pay for it. It was a lot of telling the sector what to do and forcing the sector in a particular direction. Of course, you are going to get push backs from the banks, there wasn’t a model, there wasn’t anything to compare it to, you wouldn’t immediately see the opportunity of what open banking meant. The difference is other countries have been able to analyze and see open banking, and the potential. So they are buying into open banking becomes much greater. In Nigeria open banking is already being embraced and looked at. What is important is that the banks here in Nigeria are much more innovative. I was incredibly surprised at how the banks are already thinking in an innovative way, working with fintechs on innovation. So I think the open banking piece is welcomed because what it means to them is – and this is a word that kept repeating itself – if we could only get standardized, if we could only have the legal and regulatory frame work to support this.  What are the low hanging feet that you have identified in Nigeria that needs to be worked on immediately? I think the relationship that Open Vector have with Open Banking Nigeria is exciting because it is being driven by the fintech community. The open banking team in Nigeria has already addressed and looked at the low hanging fruits like payments, cards, elements that can be immediately implemented through open banking. I think it’s now for us to come in and help guide the open banking initiative to come down from the top to the bottom and ensure that we have that legal frame work to support it. 