On June 23, 12 young footballers aged between 11 and 16 and their 25-year-old coach ventured into the Tham Luang cave in northern Thailand and became trapped when heavy rains flooded the cave. They were reported missing a few hours later and search operations began immediately. However, attempts to find them were hindered by rising water levels within the cave system and no contact was made with them for about 11 days. After great efforts, British divers discovered the boys and their coach.  After days of pumping water from the cave system and a respite from rain, four of the boys were rescued on 8th July while the rest were rescued by10th July. Over 1,000 people were involved in the rescue operation, including Thai Navy SEALs, volunteers and technical assistance teams from multiple countries. The delicate nature of the operation made a rescue chief at one point dubbed it ‘Operation Mission Impossible’. Conditions were so dangerous that a retired Thai Navy SEAL, 38 year old Saman Kunan, died in the process.  Wild jubilation erupted across the world upon news of a successful rescue operation. President Donald Trump describes it as a “beautiful moment” in human history while German Chancellor, Angela Merkel described it as “a wonderful message” to a hurting world. British Prime Minister Theresa May sees it as an ‘amazing triumph’.  The SEALs who were central to the rescue effort revealed on their Facebook page, “We are not sure if this is a miracle, a science, or what. But what is sure is that all the boys and their coach are now out of the cave.” Also, Federation of International Football Association (FIFA) offers to convey the boys and their coach to Moscow to watch the final game of ongoing Russia 2018 World Cup.  Presently, the 12 boys and their coach are quarantined in a local medical facility where they are being appropriately observed by medics. Now that the rescue operation is over, it is pertinent to draw a few lessons from this highly intriguing episode.  The first and, perhaps, most vital deduction is what can be achieved in the world when mankind is united, irrespective of language, tribal, cultural and other such differences.  Though the recue team that embarked on the dangerous and deadly mission was multinational in composition, it had only one mission in mind: To rescue the boys and their coach alive. To achieve this, their language and cultural barriers never really mattered. What really mattered was their primary mission. Indeed, there was such a global agreement on the urgency of the rescue effort that American entrepreneur, Elon Musk, had to fly to Thailand with a mini submarine and an offer to help in any way he could. The lesson herein is that there is no global crisis that cannot be surmounted when mankind is united to confront it. Another message worthy of note is the amazing courage and bravery of the boys and their coach to stay alive in the face of such life-threatening condition.  Also tied to this is the courage of the rescue team to dare the odds, even at the risk of their own lives. What a wonderful message of gallantry and perseverance! Incredibly strong is, probably, the best way to describe the boys’ hazardous staying power and eventual escape passage. In an increasingly tough world where socio-economic conditions are becoming quite harsh, the boys have taught us a vital lesson in perseverance and relentless survival instinct. It was amazing to see them in a flickering video smiling and giving the victory sign when they were found 10 days after being declared missing. The high sense of responsibility demonstrated by their 25-year-old coach, who was trapped in the cave for 18 days with the boys, is equally admirable. In a letter he sent to parents of the kids from the cave, he promised to look after them even at the risk of his life. He also apologized to the parents for whatever trauma they might have gone through in view of the incidence. This is a huge lesson for political leaders, especially in Africa. Back home in Nigeria, one very considerable point that we need to really take home from the incidence is the need to attach huge value to human lives. So much blood has been spilled in the land that it seems no longer a big deal. Sadly, we seem to be getting used to a stereotyped form of response to bloodletting. First, different people pay visits to sights of gruesome murderous acts, commensurate with those involved, promise heavens and earth until there is another incidence when the whole circle is repeated all over again. The Thailand cave episode is a veritable template for us on the need to review our attitude to the sanctity of human life. The truth is that without the people there can be no nation.