The Minister of Budget and Planning, Udo Udoma in a series of meetings on Monday announced that Nigeria will work closely withInternational Development partners to accelerate the pace of
socio-economic growth, particularly in areas that will cause speedy realization of the objectives laid out in the country’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). Meeting in Abuja with the Ambassador of Japan, Yukata Kikuta, and theUnited Nations Industrial Development Organization’s (UNIDO) ManagingDirector, Programme Development and TechnicalCooperation Division, Phillipe Scholtes in Abuja, Udoma said Nigeriais disposed to collaboration with local and foreign developmentpartners to achieve the agenda of the Buhari administration. Acknowledging the cordial and beneficial relationship between Nigeria and both parties over the years, he emphasized that untapped opportunities are available to further enhance the relationship giving the policy initiatives and incentives made available by the current administration. Shedding more light on the ERGP, Udoma explained: “The plan was developed after extensive consultations and has been accepted and commended by Nigerians. It has three key objectives: Restoring growth from a negative trend in 2016 to 7% by 2020; Investing in our people
by increasing social inclusion, creating jobs and improving the human capital base of the economy; and building a global competitive economy”. Drawing from Japan’s economic transformation over the past 5o years which stemmed from the partnership between the Japanese Public and Private sector, Udoma further stated that the Nigerian Government is working on strengthening its own Public Private Partnership (PPP),
citing the importance of private sector investment in realizing the targets of the ERGP. Noting that the ERGP was developed to address socio-economic challenges, and lay the foundation for economic diversification for inclusive and sustainable growth, he observed that the ERGP’s
objectives were in tandem with UNIDO programmes while meeting with the UNIDO Chief. The Ambassador made a commitment to enhance the relationship between both countries, while assuring the Minister of his country’s willingness to play a helpful role in the growth of Nigeria’s economy. Scholtes speaking on behalf of UNIDO also gave the assurance that his
organization will continue to support Nigeria by working closely with the Ministry of Budget and Planning, and other relevant agencies, to promote the new Country Programme for Sustainable and Industrial Development in Nigeria (2018 – 2022). He also congratulated the Minister on Nigeria’s successful exit from the economic recession that plagued the country, through the strategic approach adopted by the Federal Government through the ERGP. While speaking to the Minister, Scholtes stated that the validation of UNIDO’S new Country Programme for Sustainable and Industrial Development in Nigeria (2018 – 2022), which was done in consultation with the Ministry of Budget and Planning, was developed in full
alignment with relevant national, regional and global strategies, including ERGP, Industrial Development Decade for Africa (IDDA II) and the 2030 Agenda. He further stated that UNIDO will continue to work with, and support Nigeria in promoting and accelerating Inclusive and Sustainable Industrial Development (ISID), and implementation of IDDA II for the 2030 Agenda, especially SDG goal 9. He also commended Nigeria for its early commencement and implementation of the new Country Programme; taking ownership and showing strong commitment, particularly in areas such as payment of counterpart contributions, host country agreement and assessed
contribution to UNIDO.