BusinessDay analysis shows that consumer goods firms have a higher fixed asset turnover ratio compared to other sectors. Investors and analysts use the fixed asset turnover to gauge how firms have effectively utilized assets in generating higher sales.
Put in another way, the ratio indicates how much a business is generating in revenues for every Naira invested in fixed assets; the higher the ratio the more efficient a firm.
However, it is a generally accepted finance principle that firms that do not invest enough in assets will lose sales, and that will hurt profitability, free cash flow, return on assets and eventually stock price.
Nascon Allied Nigeria Plc has employed its property plant and equipment in making money as its fixed asset turnover of 1.19 times, beats in the average industry benchmark of 1.10 times
This also means Nascon’s operations generate N1.19 in revenues for every N1 it has in net fixed assets. Its share price has gained 137.87 percent in the past year. The company’s return on assets (ROA), increased to 19.43 percent in December 2017 from 13.29 percent the previous year.
The ROA is an important profitability ratio because it measures the efficiency with which the company is managing its investment in assets and using them to generate profit.
Nestle Nigeria Plc has a fixed asset turnover ratio of 1.14 times, which beats industry average, and its ROA moved to 21.43 percent in December 2017 from 5.49 percent the previous year. Its shares have gained 73.95 percent since last year.
Unilever Nigeria Plc, Dangote Flour Plc, Honeywell Flour Plc, and Northern Nigeria Flour Mills (NNFM) have fixed assets turnover ratios of 1.13 times, 1.07 times, 1.18 times, and 1.10 times as they were able to utilize owners’ resources in generating higher profit. Analysts are of the view that an improvement in macroeconomic conditions could underpin the fixed asset ratio or boost efficiency level.
This is because in the time of economic boom, people will be encouraged to build houses while the demand for consumer goods will spike. This means firms will have to increase assets utilization to meet increased demand.
“You can’t acquire assets when you cannot sweat it,” said Tajudeen Ibrahim, head of research at Chapel Hill Denham.
“There is room for cement makers to improve their ratio and that will be driven by what is happening in the economy,” said Ibrahim.
Ibrahim added that the efficiency ratios of firms could be bolstered if they consider price adjustment to encourage sales volume growth that will lead to revenue growth.
In the industry goods sectors, Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN) is making money from the utilization of property and plant and equipment in generating revenue as its fixed assets turnover ratio of 1.16 times, beating industry average of 0.98 times.
CCNN’s ROA increased to 16.49 percent in December 2017 from 8.9 percent the previous year. Its shares have gained 151.75 percent in the past year.
Dangote Cement Nigeria Plc’s fixed assets turnover stood at 0.45 times, which falls below industry average. The low ratio is because it has a huge capital outlay compared to peers.
“If a firm’s fixed asset turnover is well below the industry benchmark, it could be explained by an important investment it made recently in new machines that are to provide the company with higher revenues in the near future,” said an analyst who prefers to be anonymous.
“However, a low turnover could mean that the company isn’t using its assets to their fullest extent yet,” said the analyst.  BALA AUGIE