Food business is becoming increasingly profitable in Nigeria. The reason is simple: Population is growing at 2.6 percent each year and these people must be fed. Nigeria is today the most populous country in Africa, with 198 million mouths to feed. Eagle-eyed entrepreneurs are already occupying Nigeria’s food space, making millions from creating value for everyone. One of the people occupying this space is Oluwatomisin Adewumi-John, founder and head chef of Regalo Kitchen and Confectionery. A graduate of Sociology from Bowen University Iwo, Osun State, Oluwatomisin started this business in December 2015. The entrepreneur is a member of the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI), with a passion to build capacity within her community. She has served in various leadership roles over the years, which helped her in building capacity to lead Regalo Kitchen and Confectionery Limited. She is also a director at Regina La Meilleur Limited, a management consulting company located in Lagos. Oluwatomisin’s passion to contribute to poverty eradication, zero hunger and economic development led her to kick off Regalo Kitchen Cake Baking Master Class, with registration currently on-going. Regalo Kitchen is a fully Nigerian company with a goal to help clients eat right in line with their health needs. The firm’s vision is different from any other. This is because it does not just bake, cook and train, but it does these as part of its contribution towards Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1, 2, 3 and 8. The United Nations’ SDG 1 focuses on ‘No Poverty’, while SDG 2 targets ‘Zero Hunger’. More so, SDG 3 is targeted at ‘Good Health and Wellbeing’, whereas SDG 8 is all about ‘Decent Work and Economic Growth’. These are Oluwatomisin’s vision. She has trained about 100 young graduates and undergraduates since inception. “We kicked off in 2015 and have since built a steady client base within Lagos and outside Lagos,” she tells Start-Up Digest. “We have been privileged to serve individuals and corporate organisations at various levels ranging from Guaranty Trust Bank, Stanbic IBTC Bank, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management Limited , Stanbic IBTC Pensions Mangers, Fidelity Bank and many others,” she discloses. She says the market has been good, especially in Lagos where people have a problem of having time to cook. The entrepreneur has focused on solving this problem of lack of time in Lagos by giving residents readymade food. “We also offer families and homes ready-made pot of soups and stew in different sizes and combinations,” she reveals. How did Regalo Kitchen kick off? Oluwatomisin provides an explanation. “I noticed that cooking wasn’t just another chore but a passion. I started cooking as early as when I was eight and have since developed capacity to upscale by attending various trainings to ensure I am at the top of my game. “I also believe so much in SDG 3, which talks about Healthy Wellbeing, and as such, I help my clients and community eat right to stay healthy and strong for the day’s task,” she explains. The entrepreneur says she decided to convert her passion into a stream of income. “The training part came from a mind-shift to empower people around me to be self-reliant and independent in line with Sustainable Development Goal 8. I believe we all have a role to play towards nation building, especially if we intend to achieve the SDGs by year 2030,” she states. The entrepreneur did not really start with money, as she had to use kitchen utensils and wares belonging to her parents. “My line of business only needs you to get someone who trusts you to deliver,” she explains, adding that “you get part payment and on delivery get your balance.” Oluwatomisin points out that Nigerians complain a lot about capital, forgetting to look inwards to what can be achieved with available resources. She is not underestimating the importance of capital, but believes that one can always start from where one is with available resources. “For example, I cook, bake and train from home due to high cost of renting a dedicated space in Lagos. This second half of the year, I would be training about 100 participants in cake baking and issue them certificates upon completion of training. All this would be done with the available resources while we continue to apply for funding opportunities,” she says. For her, food is a necessity and not a luxury, which is why the industry is thriving. “If we should look at Abraham Maslow’s Theory of Need/Want, we would find out that food forms the basic need of man. Apart from the fact that you can see the direct impact of your activity, you get instant feedback from your clients and build sustainable relationships over time. Food business is highly lucrative and can never be over saturated as different food vendors have different target markets,” she magnanimously discloses. The entrepreneur further says that Regalo Kitchen is open to collaborations and partnerships. “Over the weekend, I attended a pitching session where investors offered funds in return for equity holdings. Regalo Kitchen is open to such similar partnership in order to upscale and service more customers,” she states. “A partnership with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) and other arms of government would also be vital towards training and empowering more youths across Lagos. We, however, would continue to do what we know best with the available resources until this opportunities and partnerships show up,” she adds. Oluwatomisin ia tapping expansion but notes that capital is key to achieving Regalo Kitchen’s expansion goal. “The long-term goal basically is to expand to all major cities across Nigeria within the next five years and then we can start thinking of outside Nigeria once our business model has been tested and trusted to work in different geographical location,” she projects. The entrepreneur is looking forward to future talks with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund once the application portal is open. Oluwatomisin wants collaboration with the LSETF, especially in the training and empowerment angle, stating that she believes a safer and productive Lagos can only be achieved when residents are well empowered. She commends the Lagos State Government for various projects being executed to make doing business easy and environment safer for entrepreneurs like her. Regalo Kitchen sources its raw materials from Mile 12, Eko Market and Ijora. For foodstuffs, the firm patronises Mile 12 Market majorly but sources her chicken and turkey from Ijora Market. The firm also sources some inputs from outside Lagos. She believes governments at all levels are working tirelessly to promote SMEs and ease of doing business in Nigeria. “I would, however, like to say they need to do more and improve public awareness to ensure people at the grassroots benefit from many of their initiatives,” she recommends. Oluwatomisin has a piece of advice for upcoming entrepreneurs. She wants them to be consistent and competent. “Rome was not built in a day and neither can any business be successful overnight. You need to build traction and set milestones and while working to achieve each milestones, there is the need to also build competence through self-development along the way in order to constantly deliver top-notch service to your clients/customer base,” she states, adding that a satisfied customer is a potential marketer for a firm.