Nigeria is estimated to have over 80 million hectares of arable land, and less than half of it is cultivated. There are also huge unfilled gaps in animal husbandry, and generally, the potentials for investment in Agriculture remain huge. Successive administrations in Nigeria at different times, touted the need for economic diversification which gives substantial focus on agriculture, but results are till date hard to call. Bukola Saraki, president of the Senate, embarked on a trip to the United States last week, where he had meetings with several officials and groups from both the private and public sectors, speaking on areas of collaboration and opportunities for investments. Agriculture was one of these areas, particularly in a meeting with some members of the American Chamber of Commerce, where it was hoped that some positive actions will be realised soon after the forward-thinking meetings. At the US Chamber of Commerce, Saraki told the American business community that, “Agriculture is a major piece in the puzzle as we step up the drive for the diversification of Nigeria’s revenue base from oil dependency. And yet, we are nowhere near tapping into the Agricultural Value Chain in any sustainable way. From Rice to poultry, to dairy products, we are producing way below the required volumes. The unavoidable fact is that there is room for exponential growth, with the right collaboration and investment. There is absolutely no reason why Nigeria should not be self-sufficient in, of all things, Rice. With the right partnerships and investment boost, the opportunity is there to achieve sufficiency and even produce for export. Dangote is currently making huge investments in Rice production, and the projections are good for the company becoming the largest producer in five years’ time. Saraki in a speech at the meeting noted that “Gone are the days when Agriculture was seen as the preserve of the lone farmer in Nigeria. The growth in trade for Agricultural products between Nigeria and the United States has been relatively small, rising from $3million to $9million, with immense potential still untapped in the sector, especially considering the enormous capacity Agriculture holds for diversifying our economy. Put simply, there is the massive opportunity in this area. Africa is no longer a social event; it is being seen as a business venture. We have a huge labour force that when supported with the right technology and equipment will support production to meet our domestic needs as well as serve as a source of new processed food exports.” The senate president also used the opportunity to highlight some legislative efforts that are being made to provide legal frameworks for agriculture to thrive better in Nigeria, and more investor-friendly.  “We are currently working on a Bill to ensure policy stability in this critical area of our economy, to tackle situations such as the earlier mentioned reduction of import duty on milk to 5%, a level at which local producers cannot possibly hope to compete. If there is anything we have learnt over the years about investment in the agriculture sector, it is that policy somersaults have made investment unattractive in this potentially rich sector, and we are working for greater stability in that regard. He further explained that the Senate has “provided a further boost for Agriculture through legislation that not only supports existing businesses but encourages the entrance of new investors into the sector. Legislation such as the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme Bill, Agricultural Quarantine Service Bill, the Food Security Bill and the Soil Science Bill – are some of the laws we have passed, making Nigeria a very attractive destination for investment. This is with a view to stimulating Agriculture as a steamroller for our diversification agenda, and Nigerians are beginning to see the benefits.” The meeting provided an opportunity to initiate discourse with some important personalities in American business, and it is expected that, armed with more information on areas of potentials in Nigeria, more agribusiness investments should materialise in a near future.