Southern Leaders and Middle Belt Elders Forum on Wednesday, alleged that the ongoing voters’ registration being conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) across the country is skewed in favour of the North. To this end, the Forum urged the leadership of National Assembly to cancel the ongoing voter registration exercise, adding that the exercise is marred by under-age registration, registration of foreigners from neighbouring countries The delegation comprises of Ayo Adebanjo who led the Afenifere group; Ohanaeze Ndigbo, the Pan Niger Delta Elders Forum (PANDEV), Middle Belt Forum, as well as Chigozie Ogbu, AVM Ikhanga Idongesit (rtd), Air Commodore Dan Suleiman; former Governor of Ondo State, Olusegun Mimiko; Cornelius Adebayo and Chief Olu Falae, among others. Air Vice Marshal Idongesit Nkana (rtd), who spoke on behalf of the forum during a working visit to Speaker Yakubu Dogara, argued that using the current voter register to conduct the 2019 general elections would produce unacceptable result. “The INEC must correct this or else, the result declared in an election under such an atmosphere is capable of creating chaos and would be rejected by Nigerians,” he warned. Nkana who expressed the Forum support for ongoing clamour for restructuring, urged Speaker Dogara to prioritize the passage of the bill on devolution of powers to States and the entrenching of the true principle of fiscal federalism in the country. He condemned the spate of killings in various parts of the nation, adding that there is the imperative for the current administration to rejig the nation’s security architecture while calling for the replacement of present crop of security chiefs. The forum further opposed the release of Boko Haram terrorists by the federal government, accusing the Buhari administration of skewed appointments into federal agencies in favour of a particular region, just as it rejected the proposed policy of cattle colonies for herdsmen. Speaking earlier, Ayo Adebanjo, who spoke on behalf of the Afenifere also threw the group’s weight behind restructuring of the nation and the enactment of a Constitution that accords equality to all sections of the nation. He expressed optimism that restructuring won’t result in the break-up of Nigeria as is been misconstrued by opponents of the principle, adding that “this is the only thing that can keep this nation one and united. “Anything beyond restructuring, we are not for it and we believe in championing this cause, we need the support of the House. By converting the idea of restructuring to you does not mean to break up Nigeria. It is the only thing that can keep Nigeria together in peace. “We do not think that after being together for so long we should break up, but we don’t want to be in a Nigeria that is dominated by one section of the country; that is anti a section of the country and extremely pro another section of the country. “Anyone one who is opposed to the restructuring of the country is the enemy number one. We want a Constitution that is agreeable to all of us. “Restructuring does not mean the break-up of Nigeria, it has no religious or ethnic coloration but uniting us in peace”. “Anyone against restructuring is an enemy of Nigeria. Opponents of restructuring have bastardized the notion for selfish reasons. We want a constitution that will give equal rights to every section of the federations units,” Adebanjo said. The Forum also tasked Federal Government to immediately put a stop to killings being carried out across the country, just as it expressed its opposition to the establishment of cattle colony and grazing lands. “The current voters’ registration exercise has been compromised and marred by irregularities by the registration of under-aged and foreigners bring recorded in some parts of the North. “Accordingly, we call for the total cancellation of the INEC voters register, support and insist on restructuring and true federalism and call on the National Assembly to immediately commence a legislative agenda in that regard,” the Forum noted. They also stressed the need for the Service Chiefs to begin immediately the process of their statutory retirement while their replacements must have a face of federal character. In his response, Speaker Dogara said that Nigerians must work for the survival of democracy for the benefit of the majority and that efforts should be geared towards allaying the fears of those opposed to restructuring because in the long run, it’s an exercise that is inevitable. He maintained that Nigeria has not realized the dreams of the nation’s founding fathers in spite of the potentials but human and natural endowments that the country is blessed with. “Nigeria hasn’t realized its full potentials since the amalgamation. This shows that something is terribly wrong with the structure or foundation upon which the country is built. “Restructuring to me means making the nation work for the good of the generality of the people and meets the expectations of all, but this must be achieved through consensus,” Dogara added.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja  