On Sunday, July 8, St. Paul’s Anglican Church, Oke-Afa, Isolo celebrated its First Fruit Harvest, allowing parishioners of the church to tap into and benefit from the biblical blessings attached to thanksgiving. Ahead of the celebration, Ikechukwu Ezeonyeka, Knight of the Church of Nigeria, chairman, harvest team, and president, Men Fellowship of the parish, spoke with SEYI JOHN SALAU on the importance of thanksgiving to the church.  What is the relevance of harvest to the church? To start with, harvest is not something that is not biblical. In Genesis 8:22, we can see the importance of harvest, and harvest is all about a period of harvesting what you have sown as human. God has planted you and you cannot say you are not fruitful; He created you and made you to be fruitful, either by getting your loved ones or wife, getting a job, doing business and every other thing in your life as a blessing. Firstly, you are alive, you have a family, and you are healthy; so whatever you are doing, you have to thank God for making you fruitful. When it comes to you as human – you have to thank God because you have many things to be thankful for: this is when we talk about seed sowing. For everything you venture into, and were successful, you have to thank God because you are not the one that made it successful. So, harvest is all about thanksgiving; a period that the church set out for people to thank God for their live, family, and every other thing. If I may go deep a bit into the relevance of harvest to the church, in our church and some other churches; there are types of harvest, and in my church we create types of harvest which other people think is a way to extort money: but we do it to make people key in to it, because there is a blessing that goes with thanking God. We start harvest by unveiling the harvest theme which is also biblical – so it is like a prophetic word that people look forward for each year. This year’s harvest theme is ‘Divine Help’ which is in Psalms 122:1-2; so that any other person coming to thank God will look forward and key into that word – you have it at the back of your mind that whatever you are doing, you are seeking the face of the lord to be your divine help in all situations.  We are here celebrating first fruit; what does this harvest signify for believers? One critical aspect of the harvest calendar is the First Fruit Harvest which is a very important harvest in the church because it teaches people to understand the implication of first fruit – they come in to give the first fruit of their labour. What we do is to align with the name of the harvest significantly with fruits as something created by God, and after the ministration people come out to sacrifice their first fruit. However, at the unveiling of the harvest theme, we equally call out the harvest features and dates for the year, and from that date every other harvest that will come in the year will be unveiled; tagged the General Gleaners Harvest. Once we unveil the harvest theme, it means the harvest season has taken off, and every Sunday we call on each group to thank God for their group and equally sow a seed for that year.  I am curious to know the wisdom behind celebrating First Fruit Harvest in July? The timing is really not the main thing, but the prophetic word that comes with it – that is, you knowing how to sacrifice and sow seeds, and not the time because seed sowing is every time. There is actually no time that we as believers cannot sow a seed in God’s vineyard.  With all the weekly activities you engage in, where is the time to play your fatherly role at home? First, it is the grace of God that sustains one in all endeavor because I begin to look at the time; just like one material I was reading that talks about excuses people give for not having time for God, but when they diagnose you of one sickness or the other and ask you to come to the hospital for treatment or consultation – you then have time, but when they ask you to create time for activities that would prevent you from going into this casualty, you said you do not have the time. Secondly, it is to key into God’s arrangement of serving in His vineyard; there are certain things in life that does not glorify God; however if you are given a role to play in God’s vineyard, He will equip you to serve in His vineyard. And, how does He equip me? He has to let me know that there are certain things in my life that I have to drop to create that time to serve. Like the testimony I shared with the Men’s Fellowship – I told them, when I was so much into social life, there is no weekend I do not socialize either its child naming, dedication, or wedding ceremony I will be there and after that I hang-out with friends: why shouldn’t I have time when given a role to serve in the church. You have time for social; why not to serve in the vineyard of God. These are what we are talking about – social life is about partying and merriment; am not saying people should not socialize but they should know that God’s role comes first in whatever we do as human, and I begin to see that the best place to serve with the greatest impact is to serve in God’s vineyard.  What is your take on the level of insecurity and attacks on the church; is it because the church in Nigeria failed in its primary role? It is not all about the church has failed rather it is about persecution on the church. The church in Nigeria has not failed in its primary responsibility because we have so many ministers of the word, preaching and doing what the word entails, however it is about persecution on the church and the church sleeping at times. Like the word tells us to watch and pray: and at times it is about the church breaking the edge. So, whatever that is happening in Nigeria, prophetically is something that will make the church in Nigeria to be very strong. The church will conquer and get over these trying times, but it is unfortunate that so many lives are being lost and blood are being shed at the moment but the church in Nigeria has come to stay. If you look at the church in Nigeria today, we are sending missionaries to other part of the world and you know the missionaries that brought this gospel to us are from Europe and America; but now the church in Nigeria is going out to give them the gospel. Biblically, the western world has turned away from the gospel just like the issue of gay marriage and other things that goes contrary to the wish of God. The persecution of the church in Nigeria is mainly in the north and I think it is not that the church in the north does not know what they are doing, but there is a problem of co-habitation up north that the Christians in the north were so loose that they did not realise the people they are co-habiting with are not their brothers based on religion even though they are together on the basis of land, tribe and language; however, they did not realise it in time that they are brothers when it comes to religion. if they had realised this earlier they would know how to co-habit with them, because when your enemy is coming your way; it’s either you stop him at the gate and say I don’t want you – go your way and let me be on my own, but when you open the gate for him to come in, automatically he will know you in and out. However, the Christians will get over it and it will make us stronger. What I know is that the church of God in Nigeria is at the art of God.  What is your message to Nigerians and the parishioners of St. Paul’s in particular? To the parishioners and Nigerians, I want them to know that fellowshipping together is important; we all know that we can equally be in our various homes for fellowship but coming together as Christians to share our views and listen to other people’s testimonies, prayer points, words of exhortation will help lift the believer’s faith. And as we come to church people understand better that the church does not belong to the man of God and whatever you do in the church is done in the name of the lord – you do not look at how other people behave in the church. Once you are in church, know you are there because of the almighty God and when you feel there are one or two people in the church doing things contrary; you just put them in prayers so that God will touch them.