Unlike how many may think about the generation seen as notorious for addiction to technology and fleeting pleasures, most millennials are actually not motivated by the financial pecks or a company’s financial wellbeing, says new survey from Deloitte. As much as 86 per cent of the millennials who responded to a survey conducted by the auditing firm said business success should be measured in terms of more than just its financial performance. They see impact on people and environment as the best measurement. This growing mindset is one of the three macro trends driving the need for change in the workplace. The remaining trends include people who trust (52 per cent) in businesses to do what is right rather than in government (43 per cent). Also, 87 per cent of C-level executive say that digital revolution will lead to more equality and stability with more ability to influence than governments to shape the future. The Human Capital Trends Survey 2018 was launched at the Deloitte Nigeria Talent Management Forum. The quality of the 2018 edition is buttressed by the increased number of responses – 11,000 people – compared to last year’s 10,400. Nigeria had 102 respondents. Joseph Olofinsola, the Deloitte Nigeria’s Human Capital Consulting Partner reiterated the need for organisations to disrupt themselves by moving away from traditional way of running an organisation and embrace digitalisation which is powering the workplace of the 21st century. This is already happening as the survey showed. First, organisations are revamping their approaches to workforce management. Second, rewards are transitioning from strictly standardised to highly personalised. Hence, organisations need to build a culture of learning and create new experiences to support a 21st century career. Technology adoption is expected to play a leading role in the transformation. Companies therefore must leverage technology for sustainable growth. To realise this, automation and robotics must be incorporated in the work architecture. This will help maximise the value of both humans and machines. The survey also recommended that companies should embrace new tools, flexible workplaces, integrated leadership and invest heavily in programmes to use data for workplace planning, talent management, and operational improvement. Millennials not only expect organisations to do the right thing, they – like everyone else – expect protection from the abuse of data. As much as 93 per cent of respondents said data was important. 