The coast is getting clearer for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to formally take over the leadership and majority in both chambers of the Senate and House of Representatives, BusinessDay can report authoritatively. Our Correspondent gathered that PDP will require about 23 members to unseat All Progressive Congress (APC) as majority party in the Lower Chamber. While addressing Legislative Correspondents, Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader in the House of Representatives had during a protest media briefing held after the defection of 37 lawmakers to PDP and African Democratic Congress (ADC) last Tuesday, disclosed that about 60 members will be required to unseat APC from the majority. With the defection of Senate President, Bukola Saraki to PDP, some PDP members in the House expressed optimism that Speaker Dogara will soon follow suit. Timothy Golu (PDP-Plateau) informed BusinessDay that the Speaker is at liberty to announce his defection “at his convenience,” despite the fact that the House is on recess.
“It is members that are doing their own presently. “It is the Speaker that will announce his own defection when the time comes. So he can choose to announce anytime. When we resume he can do it. There are so many people that are coming to declare their defection. “Some of them are pressurized to stay back, but let’s see whether their conditions will be addressed?” While noting that the defection of the 37 members from APC was the first phase, Golu observed that other APC members who had expressed interests in announcing their defection to PDP and other political parties “were not in town. Some wanted to defect on Wednesday and Thursday. As you know, we were forced to embark on recess in solidarity with the Senate because of the security threat on the National Assembly. Once a chamber was attacked, the other chamber is also attacked,” the Plateau lawmaker said. According to him, some of the aggrieved members of APC have declared their intentions at their respective constituencies several months before formalizing it through a letter to the leadership of the House. Golu added that some of the members who had earlier expressed intentions to move to other parties especially PDP, were pressurized to step down their decisions. He however affirmed that some of the defecting APC members are being intimidated by the Federal Government, with the view to prevail on them to jettison the defection plans. Also speaking with BusinessDay in a telephone chat, Abdulrasak Namdas, chairman, House Committee on Media and Public Affairs, denied knowledge of the alleged planned defection of Speaker Dogara. He however noted that the news about Dogara’s defection has been trending but noted the information cannot be substantiated by those peddling the rumour. “I’m not aware of the defection. But the news has been trending over the time. You can quote me on that,” the Adamawa lawmaker said. In the same vein, Namdas also debunked report that the House will soon re-convene to consider the request of President Muhammadu Buhari on the N242 billion for the 2019 general elections and BusinessDay recall that Dogara has failed to attend the closed door meeting held at the instance of the new APC national Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 