On the 7th of August 2018 the First bank Holdings (FBH) largest subsidiary First bank of Nigeria limited (FBN) is set to exercise its call option rights to redeem the US$300 million fixed rate subordinated note at 8.25 percent from the international debt markets, 2 years before the maturity date in 2020.
The bank seeks to call and prepay its bondholders earlier than the initial maturity date. The $300 million Eurobond issued in August 2013 in London following a roadshow, was part of the bank’s desire to tap into the global market.
It is a seven year callable subordinated instrument with a yield of 8.5 percent and callable after 5 years.
A callable bond is a debt instrument in which the issuer reserves the right to return the investor’s principal and stop interest payments before the bond’s maturity date.
As stated by the bank, “this liquidity management exercise demonstrates the strength of the bank’s foreign currency liquidity and the resilience of its balance sheet.”
The bank also believed that “being able to redeem the subordinate tier 2 instrument without any impact on its capital ratios confirms its robust capital base.”
In a move to ensure that this action is done smoothly, first bank has attempted to build up its internal liquidity on the back of a strong franchise and its deep market access in the course of 2018. The bank has seen its foreign currency deposits increase by 11.9 percent year to date and 6.9 percent year on year.
This exercise would make it the second time the bank will call and prepay its bondholders, following its debut in 2007 with a 9.75 percent US $175 million Eurobond which was called in 2012.
The bank will also be able to save about $24 .75 million annual interest it would have to pay in subsequent years to bondholders as the callable bond pays 8.25 percent annual interest.
In its statement, the bank revealed that it will not be reissuing any foreign currency (FX) debt in the near term, as it has sufficient local and foreign funds at its disposals. However it would continue to maintain sufficient market access to raise additional funds, if required.  Sobechukwu Eze & Cynthia Ikwuetoghu 