After about 20 years of low sovereign default frequency of, at most, two bond defaults of rated sovereigns per year, the default rate picked up in 2017 with four defaults of rated sovereigns. This was disclosed in Moody’s Investors Service Data Report published on Thursday, July 19, 2018. The annual report had update statistics on the default, loss and rating transition experience of Moody’s-rated government bond issuers for 2017, as well as for the period since 1983. As at the end of 2017, the one-year default rate stood at 3.1 percent, four times higher than the average default rate in the 1983-2017 period. On the reason for the first hike since two decades, Elena Duggar, Associate Managing Director at Moody’s said “the defaults were triggered by a mix of materializing contingent liabilities on the sovereign balance sheets, rising public debt, balance of payments difficulties as a result of the dramatic fall in oil prices in 2014-16 and country-specific political risks.” Meanwhile, sovereign default is a failure on the repayment of a county’s government debts. Countries are often hesitant to default on their debts, since it will be difficult and expensive to borrow funds after a default event. Nigeria, however did not appear on the default list of the international rating body, as compiled from Moody’s country rated sovereign bond defaults since 1983. According to the report, there were four rated governments defaulted in 2017, which affected about $15.2 billion of debt. The countries that made this list included; The Republic of the Congo (Caa2 negative), Mozambique (Caa3 negative) and Venezuela (C stable) which missed interest payments on their bonds, while Belize (B3 stable) undertook a distressed bond exchange. Meanwhile, Africa’s largest exporter of crude oil raised $3 billion in its biggest Eurobond sale yet in November 2017. The fund was raised in a two-part international bond sale as it seeks to fund a fiscal deficit and reduce its local-currency debt burden. The West African nation divided the offering equally between 10- and 30-year tranches. The yield was 6.5 percent for the shorter notes and 7.625 percent for the 30-year portion, down 25 basis points on each tranche from the initial guidance. The issue received $11 billion of bids, according to central bank Governor Godwin Emefiele. According to the Debt Management Office (DMO), total public debt as at the end of 2017 represented 18.20 per cent of Nigeria’s GDP. The agency disclosed the rate showed Nigeria’s debt continues to be sustainable and is well within the threshold of 56 per cent for countries in Nigeria’s peer group. Patience Oniha, the Director General of DMO disclosed that the recent borrowings were, largely for financing capital expenditure and stimulating the economy. “The funds injected through the borrowings strongly supported the implementation of the federal government’s budget which helped the country to exit the recession in 2017,” she said. Meanwhile, Africa’s most populous nation has plans to reduce its domestic borrowing and increase its foreign debt, in the ratio of 40 percent to 60 percent respectively. Oniha explained that the new Debt Management Strategy had culminated in restructuring the portfolio with attendant reduction of debt servicing costs, lowering interest rates in the domestic market and an improved availability of credit facilities to the private sector. Nigeria has continued further implementation of the strategy in 2018 with the issuance of the $2.5 billion Eurobonds in February 2018. Looking ahead, Moody’s sees the growth outlook for sovereign credit to be supportive but although mentioned that global financial conditions are tightening. “Our median sovereign rating was Ba as of the end of 2017, and as of July 2018, eight sovereigns are rated in the Caa-C categories. Compared to 2017, the share of positive and stable sovereign outlooks has expanded in 2018, reflecting an improvement in credit fundamentals compared with the previous several years. As of July 2018, the vast majority of sovereign ratings have a stable outlook,” Duggar, Associate Managing Director at Moody’s told BusinessDay in a mail response. It therefore expects three main themes to drive the credit outlook in 2018-19: the supportive global growth outlook, tightening global financial conditions and heightened political risks. On the near-term, the New York-based organisation expects economic growth to support sovereign fundamental credit conditions. “We expect robust global growth in 2018, similar to 2017. The benign economic backdrop broadens the window for sovereigns to pursue economic and fiscal reforms. The longer-term credit impact of the supportive growth environment will depend on how far they manage to do so,” Moody’s said in its report. Favorable global external financial conditions have allowed some emerging market sovereigns to address macroeconomic imbalances and build fiscal buffers over the past several years. Nevertheless, it expects global growth to moderate by the end of 2018 and in 2019 as a result of a number of advanced economies reaching full employment, and because of rising borrowing costs and tighter credit conditions in both advanced and emerging market countries that will hamper further acceleration. “Downside risks to growth will likely transfer to credit pressures, especially at the lower end of the rating scale. Rising credit pressures amid tightening global financial conditions After years of accommodative monetary policy by the major central banks, global financial conditions have steadily tightened. While we expect the tightening process to happen only gradually, sovereigns with wide economic imbalances and large short-term refinancing needs are more susceptible to rising global interest rates,” Duggar added.  Endurance Okafor 