With Nigeria inching ever closer to the 2019 general elections, concerned stakeholders have continued to harp on the need for free, fair and credible polls. The stakeholders believe that only a transparent and credible electoral process would engender peace, stability and good governance in the country. The alternative, they say, is a recipe for cataclysm. The concerns are mostly born out of the fear that President Muhammadu Buhari, being a major contender in the election, may not give his co-contenders a level playing ground. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Buhari’s party, has since zeroed in on him as its presidential candidate in the coming election. Given Nigerian politicians’ do-or-die approach to elections, and particularly Buhari and the APC’s rather belligerent disposition towards the opposition, questions are being raised as to whether the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), which is believed to be loyal to the president, would be allowed to play the role of a neutral umpire in the forthcoming elections. More specifically, will the government in power be disposed to free and fair polls in 2019? Pundits say with unhindered access to the state treasury, state-owned media, the entire security apparatus, official vehicles and jets, government officials and appointees to be deployed at will for electoral campaign purposes, and so much more, the incentive is high for an incumbent president to want to meddle in the electoral process to his advantage. They, however, urge President Buhari to resist any such temptation in the interest of peace. The major opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has always accused INEC of leaning towards the APC, saying it lacks confidence in the commission’s ability to be fair and to conduct credible polls. The chairman and 12 national commissioners of INEC are the president’s appointees, even though the appointments are made in consultation with the Council of State and subject to confirmation by the Senate. As such, the commission is often reduced to a mere tool in the hands of the incumbent. Just last Thursday, while playing host to a combined delegation of the International Republican Institute (IRI) and the National Democratic Institute (NDI) at the PDP national secretariat in Abuja, Uche Secondus, the party’s national chairman, threatened that the party would pull out of the 2019 general elections if INEC and security agencies fail to demonstrate sufficient level of impartiality expected from them by Nigerians. Decrying what he called the manipulation of vote figures by INEC in the recent governorship election in Ekiti State in favour of the APC, Secondus also accused the Nigerian Police of chasing away PDP agents from various polling centres, particularly in areas known to be PDP strongholds. “We are still contemplating on whether we will participate in the 2019 elections or not. We are yet to take a decision on this. We are not sure that the security agencies and INEC would be impartial and transparent,” Secondus said. “In the Ekiti elections, there were instances where our party agents’ tags were removed and given to the APC agents. There were clear cases of manipulation, ballot snatching and harassment of our party agents,” he said. Earlier in January when the United Nations Needs Assessment Mission Team, led by Serge G. Kubwimana, paid a visit to the PDP leadership in Abuja, Secondus had expressed fears over the ability of INEC and the APC government to conduct free and fair elections in 2019. He had also urged the UN to monitor the activities of the APC, demand free and fair elections in 2019, and ensure the ruling party accepts the result of the elections as might be decided by the voting public, just as the PDP did in 2015. Secondus sounded the alarm that all the elections conducted by INEC under the APC government since 2015 had come with a huge question mark, with rigging involving security agents, and that once any election did not end in APC’s favour, it was declared inconclusive or cancelled outright and there would be a rerun. He was apprehensive that a similar scenario may play out in 2019. “So, we want to urge this body to look seriously in the area of free and fair elections that guarantee security and free from crisis. In any part of the world, it is when elections are not transparent that we have problems,” Secondus said. “We conducted free and fair elections in 2015 and we handed over and conceded defeat, but what we are seeing so far has not given us the confidence at all that they can conduct free and fair elections. The entire country is worried, not only PDP; it is across the board. All the other political parties are very worried because of what is happening today in the country,” he said. Shehu Gabam, national secretary of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), in May also raised similar fears, especially on grounds of the widespread insecurity across the country. Gabam, who was of the view that no free election could take place in a chaotic situation as being witnessed in the country at present, called on President Buhari to stop “the political rascality” by government functionaries, APC members, security agencies and other categories of individuals and groups. No alternative to free, fair elections John Cardinal Onaiyekan, Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, in April charged the Buhari administration to ensure free and fair elections next year and avoid any form of manipulation of the election results. Onaiyekan, who spoke at the inauguration of the Regional Episcopal Conference of West Africa (RECOWA) Peace Committee in Abuja, recalled that the Buhari government benefitted from free and fair election in 2015 and warned the government not to start off on the assumption that it must win in 2019. “Everybody should be prepared to lose and everybody should be prepared to win. The electorates have the final say,” he said. Also speaking at the British Parliament earlier in January, Ike Ekweremadu, Deputy Senate president, called on President Buhari to not only ensure that his administration conducts a credible, free and fair election next year but also be prepared to accept in good faith the outcome of the election should he and his party lose at the presidential poll. Ekweremadu, who spoke on the topic ‘African Politics: The Dynamics and Lessons’, said any attempt to manipulate the 2019 elections to the advantage of self or party would not augur well for peace and democracy not only in Nigeria but in the entire African continent. “Former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan put Nigeria on the global map as a leading democratic nation when he put in everything to ensure a free and fair election, in which he not only lost the presidential poll as an incumbent, but also willingly conceded defeat. In fact, he called the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari, and congratulated him even before the announcement of the final results. In addition, neither former President Jonathan nor the PDP challenged the outcome of the election in court,” Ekweremadu said. “Therefore, to whom much is given, much is also expected. The onus is now on President Buhari to likewise provide a level playing ground and show uncommon statesmanship if he and his party lose the 2019 presidential election. That way, Africa’s biggest democracy will further entrench the culture of peaceful and smooth transfer of power from a ruling party to the opposition in both Nigeria and Africa,” he said. Ekiti guber sign of what lies ahead? Before the Ekiti State governorship election of July 14, political analysts had said the conduct of the election would give a peek preview into 2019. Now that the election has come and gone, observers say if it is indeed a sign of what lies ahead, then there is much to fear as 2019 approaches. Even now, the dust raised by the Ekiti election, which INEC said was won by Kayode Fayemi of the APC, is yet to settle as the opposition PDP has rejected the results, alleging malpractices. PDP said the election “was far from being free, fair and credible”, described Fayemi’s victory as a “stolen mandate”, blamed INEC and security agencies for the “robbery”, and vowed to use “every constitutional means” to reclaim its victory. It said it was compiling “exhibits” as it prepares to head to the tribunal. This is even as a coalition of domestic and international election observers accredited to observe the Ekiti election has said the election fell short of global best practices and electoral standards and could not be recommended as a template for next year’s general elections. The observers, comprising representatives from over 50 domestic organisations, human rights groups and international election observer bodies, while commending INEC for certain improvements, faulted the deployment of 30,000 policemen for the election. They said the electoral process was largely characterised by unwholesome practices, such as vote-buying (where voters surreptitiously showed party agents which party they voted for and then went behind to get settled), ballot box snatching, sporadic shootings and intimidation of some party agents, among others. “The exercise witnessed a high level of unprecedented electoral-related challenges and such abuse will remain contentious until justice prevails, especially in the areas of cash inducement, arrests of political stalwarts by security agents and snatching of electoral materials by political thugs, among other abuses,” said Gabriel Nwambu of the Centre for Credible Leadership and Citizens Awareness, Abuja, who addressed journalists on behalf of the domestic observers. “Finger biometric capture was slow. Party stalwarts were indicating to voters where to thumbprint. Poll was delayed due to slow pace of machines. Party agents had huge cash and were close to voting points. Security agents were indifferent to cash inducement of voters. The whole process falls short of the compliance with international best standards,” he said. Virginia Marumoa-Gae of the International Republican Institute (IRIS) in South Africa, one of the international observers, said, “Voters showed their ballot papers to party agents to collect money, thugs disrupted voting process by shooting, but the police and other attaching security agents did well by establishing their presence at the polling units as stipulated by the constitution. We also noted that the INEC has improved on card readers this time.” Buhari, INEC commit to credible poll Given the heightening apprehension over 2019, it was heartening to hear President Buhari last Tuesday promise to conduct credible, violence-free polls in 2019. Delivering a keynote address at the 20th anniversary celebration of the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague, Netherlands, July 17, Buhari said his administration would deploy every power within its reach to conduct free, fair and violence-free polls in 2019. “Contrary to the tragic incidents that characterised the 2011 general election in Nigeria which necessitated preliminary investigations by the ICC, I assure you that all hands are on deck to prevent any recurrence of such tragic incidents,” Buhari said. “We shall do everything possible to ensure that Nigeria witnesses the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections in 2019.” Recall that the 2011 elections were nearly marred by post-election violence, which led to the death of over 800 persons in the North, including 10 members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). A report by Human Rights Watch, an international non-governmental organisation that conducts research and advocacy on human rights, said that deadly election-related and communal violence in northern Nigeria following the April 2011 presidential voting left more than 800 people dead, adding that the victims were killed in three days of rioting in 12 northern states. It said the protests degenerated into violent riots or sectarian killings in the northern states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Niger, Sokoto, Yobe, and Zamfara, with relief officials estimating that more than 65,000 people must have been displaced. Corinne Dufka, then senior West Africa researcher at Human Rights Watch, had also said that although the presidential election was heralded as among the fairest in Nigeria’s history, it also was among the bloodiest. “The newly elected authorities should quickly build on the democratic gains from the elections by bringing to justice those who orchestrated these horrific crimes and addressing the root causes of the violence,” Dufka had said. Indeed, the Federal Government Panel on the 2011 Elections Violence and Civil Disturbances headed by Sheikh Ahmed Lemu had, in its report submitted in October 2011, identified provocative utterances by many individuals as part of the causes of the post-election violence. “Provocative utterances by many individuals and the widespread charge by prominent politicians, including the CPC presidential candidate, to the electorate to ‘guard their votes’, ‘appeared’ to have been misconstrued by many voters to include recourse to violence,” the report had said. The then CPC presidential candidate, now President Muhammadu Buhari, had, however, denied making inciting utterances, saying that the panel and the then government were executing a pre-determined agenda since PDP and President Goodluck Jonathan had earlier accused the CPC of being responsible for the mayhem even before the panel was raised. The 2015 elections also generated similar apprehension, with many Nigerians with the means relocating their families abroad for fear of eruption of post-election violence. Former President Jonathan, however, saved the day when he conceded defeat and called to congratulate Buhari, his major challenger and candidate of the APC in the election. INEC has also continued to commit to free and fair elections in 2019. At a one-day national consultation with key stakeholders on importance of women in politics organised by Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) in Benin, the Edo State capital, in June, Mahmoud Yakubu, INEC chairman, assured Nigerians that the electoral body was committed to conducting a free, fair and inclusive election. Yakubu was represented at the event by Blessing Obidegwu, deputy director, Gender Division, INEC headquarters. But analysts say verbal assurances alone are not enough, urging Buhari, the APC and INEC to walk the talk. “If antecedents are anything to go by, then we have no reason to believe any promises made by the Buhari government. How many of the promises made on the campaign trail in 2015 have been fulfilled today? Rather, this government and the APC turned around and denied all the promises,” said a Lagos-based public affairs commentator on condition of anonymity. “But on this very issue of free and fair elections in 2019, Buhari must not renege on his promise if he still has any love left for Nigeria. Not doing so will spell doom for this country,” he said.