The President called for the type of cooperation that made it possible for previous governments between 1999-2014, in Nigeria to produce an average of 2.1 million per day, with an average revenue of $100 barrel per day, earnings This according to him, meant that “for the 16 years of previous administration, Nigeria was receiving 2.1 million x $100 x 16 years, seven days a week” He however chided the previous administration for poor management of the income adding that “ when we came in it came down to $37, $38 and then it oscillated $40 and $50 for sometimes” “And when I went to central bank with my cap in my hand, I was told there was no savings. When I look at the infrastructure, the roads, rails, power, I asked where has the money gone? Why are the Nigerian elites that know this damage is being done to the resources of the country.” “So I plead with you leaders of these communities that your resources have been sustaining this country throughout these years for restrain of control, so that the cooperation you gave to the previous administrations will be extended to this administration so that the country can realize the resources which are mainly under your seat” He used the opportunity to call for support from Niger Delta and urged the leaders to prevail on the youths to stop vandalizing economic facilities in the region. He noted that such acts of sabotage “ hurt more of your people that have access to employment, either lack of  education, you know as much as I do that it is the people that suffer from oil pollution, like those engaged in fishing. “If the water is polluted is the majority of the people that will suffer. Those making noise in the media because they somehow have access and because they are outside the country, but those of us who are stuck here we are left to convince the people to show respect” “I have noted your representation but like I said, please persuade the so called militants to please give Peace a change and stop sabotaging installations because like I said if we pollute the waters it will affect more of your people including those who depend on fishing.  You don’t need money from central bank what you need is secured coastlines that will enable the people earn decent living through fishing.” Presidency listed the Ogoni Cleanup where it announced that “ prequalification of contractors who bidded has been completed, in line w/ public procurement laws, adding that “  Actual remediation & cleaning exercise will start as soon as procurement process concluded” The message on the Twitter did not however indicate when the much expected clean up exercise will commence Presidency however said the “ Escrow Agreement to kickstart drawdown of 1st tranche of $170m has been  signed. Presidency also listed some of the successes of the @MBuhari Administration’s New Vision for the Niger Delta @ndnewvision to  include the take-off  of Maritime University in Delta State on March 12, 2018, with 338 students across 3 faculties – transport, engineering & environmental management. The President had chided previous administration for poor management of the income adding that “ when we came in it came down to $37, $38 and then it oscillated $40 and $50 for sometimes” “And when I went to central bank with my cap in my hand, I was told there was no savings. When I look at the infrastructure, the roads, rails, power, I asked where has the money gone? Why are the Nigerian elites that know this damage is being done to the resources of the country.” “So I plead with you leaders of these communities that your resources have been sustaining this country throughout these years for restrain of control, so that the cooperation you gave to the previous administrations will be extended to this administration so that the country can realize the resources which are mainly under your seat” He used the opportunity to call for support from Niger Delta and urged the leaders to prevail on the youths to stop vandalizing economic facilities in the region. He noted that such acts of sabotage “ hurt more of your people that have access to employment, either lack of  education, you know as much as I do that it is the people that suffer from oil pollution, like those engaged in fishing. “If the water is polluted is the majority of the people that will suffer. Those making noise in the media because they somehow have access and because they are outside the country, but those of us who are stuck here we are left to convince the people to show respect” “I have noted your representation but like I said, please persuade the so called militants to please give Peace a change and stop sabotaging installations because like I said if we pollute the waters it will affect more of your people including those who depend on fishing.  You don’t need money from central bank what you need is secured coastlines that will enable the people earn decent living through fishing.”