ARM Life Insurance, a subsidiary of Asset & Resource Management Holding Company (ARM Group) has repositioned for growth, moving the company from a loss position of N500 million in 2015 to N 486.9 million at the end of 2017, and now set to play big in the nation’s insurance space. Having used the last two years from 2015 to 2017 to restructure, the life specialist company is ready to bring innovation in the market with set of new products, technology driven distribution channels, as well as new outlets. Stephen Alangbo, managing director/CEO of the company joined by its top management team, said the company is now ready to deliver new consumer experience with innovative products and efficient claims services. Addressing journalist at the Company’s corporate head office in Lagos, Alangbo said the focus of the company is retail, and so have perfected plans to drive the process with a lot of investment in technology, agency network, aggregators as well as partnerships, across the population segments and different parts of the country. The Company’s gross premium written increased by 31.5 percent to N3.62 billion in 2017 from the N2.75 billion generated in 2016. The sustained focus on growing policyholder’s fund, particularly in the individual life segment, the disciplined risk management practices and investment management strategies, enabled the company to return a profit before tax of N486.9 million for the year 2017, against N123.2 million in 2016, representing an increase of 295 percent increase over the previous year, the company said. During the year a total of N412 million was paid out as claims to policyholders, further underscoring the company’s commitment to prompt claims payment, and efficient customer service. On the balance sheet side, total assets grew by 27 percent to N16.13 billion in 2017 from N12.71bn recorded in 2016 underscoring the success of the company’s investment management strategy and culminating in 18 percent increase in shareholders’ equity to N3.23 billion, up from N2.75 billion achieved in 2016 “As ARM Life progresses in its quest for leadership in the retail segment of the market, we remain mindful of the importance of building a sustainable business that will continue to engender the trust of our clients and, other stakeholders. The Company is on course to launch new products specifically designed to provide insurance services for the retail segment of the market.” Despite the challenges in the economy, the Company highlighted huge opportunities in the insurance space, which will be explored towards continuously increase values to all stakeholders. “We remain focused on the implementation of our strategic objectives. Some of the objectives are centred on product and service innovation to improve customer experience and to cater for their evolving needs; focus on digital transformation to improve operational efficiency; and increasing distribution channels and market reach. ARM Life Plc is a life insurance company with a vision to be a leading provider of protection and wealth creation solutions in Nigeria. Our customer service driven strategy; focus on operational excellence and value driven financial products are at the foundation of everything we do. We offer living benefit solutions in two forms Term Life and Whole Life Insurance via life cover packages, critical illness, and protection, annuities and savings products to cater to any of your life needs.