In the face of declining credit to the private sector of the economy, expansionary policy is said to be appropriate according to FSDH Research. Credit to the private sector contracted by 0.16 per cent in April 2018, compared to the provisional annual growth benchmark of 5.64 percent. “Bank lending rates also remained significantly high – all indicative that the banking industry requires more impetus to substantially reflect the benefits of the on-going recovery. Thus, the monetary authority must work with the relevant financial institutions to entrench innovative measures to safely increase credit to the real sector”, Aishah Ahmad, deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) said in May MPC. According to data from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), net domestic credit decreased marginally by 0.57 percent to N25.72 trillion in May 2018, from N25.86 trillion in December 2017. The net credit to the private sector shrank marginally by 0.37 percent to N22.21 trillion during the same period. The weak economic recovery and rising crises in some parts of the country are responsible for the weak credit growth. “An expansionary policy may be appropriate to expand credit if the social crises are resolved”, said analysts at FSDH Research, a subsidiary of FSDH Merchant Bank limited. The Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) is scheduled to hold July 23 and 24 in Abuja. From the views of most analysts, the MPC would retain the interest rate at 14 percent. “We expect the MPC to maintain the benchmark interest rate at the current level due to the anticipated expansionary impact of fiscal spending following the signing of the 2018 budget”, the Economic Intelligence Unit of Access Bank Plc said in a report. In its last meeting in May, the MPC noted that the economy needed a new impetus of increased lending by the banking system and would work with the Bank to adopt innovative ways to encourage the deposit money banks (DMBs) to adopt innovative ways to accelerate credit growth, including a reduction. Adenikinju, Adeola, member of the MPC, said in his personal statement at the May MPC that it is clear that banks are more eager to strengthen their balance sheet than commit to new credits. The continuous preference of banks for relatively safer fixed income assets rather than direct lending to the real sector of the economy remains a critical challenge to current policy stance. “Simply tinkering with the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at this current state of the banking sector may not simply translate into more credit for the economy unless there is a way to creatively ‘de-risk’ the targeted real sectors of the economy”, he said. In general the banking system witnessed growth in aggregate deposits in the first quarter of 2018, however, there was no corresponding increase in credit. This implies that more liquidity in the system may not mean more credit as is widely believed in the short term. The high operating expenses in the banking system need to be carefully addressed to reduce the high cost environment which in my view impacts more on lending rates than even the MPR. Hope Moses-Ashike 