Teach for Nigeria, a non-profit organization focused on improving the quality of education for Nigeria’s most marginalized children, is targeting to impact over 500,000 primary school children across Nigeria annually over the next 10 years. In line with its plans to expand and deepen its efforts in this regard, Teach for Nigeria hosted captains of industry and private and public sector leaders at its inaugural annual education cocktail and fundraiser in Lagos recently. Themed ‘Educate Nigeria’, the event served as a platform to highlight the Teach for Nigeria vision, mission, strategy and progress made since inception in 2017 in addressing the inequality that exists in disadvantaged schools in the programme’s current coverage areas, Lagos and Ogun States, as well as its expansion efforts into the Northern region of the country in 2018. It also provided a means to enlist the support of and recruit champions from the private sector to secure financial and strategic commitments towards raising much-needed funds to be invested in transforming the educational system and ensuring that every Nigerian child, regardless of status, has an opportunity to attain quality education. Folawe Omikunle, CEO, Teach for Nigeria, said education in Nigeria has over the years suffered a steady and continuous decline resulting in poor learning outcomes for most students, particularly disadvantaged students from low-income communities. “As part of efforts to ensure that the standards are raised for all our children, Teach for Nigeria was established and I am proud of all that we have achieved so far and grateful for the support and commitment we have received from our Fellows, champions and ambassadors,” Omikunle said. Gbenga Oyebode, chairman, Teach for Nigeria, said the initiative is focused on developing a movement of leaders across the nation who are committed to putting an end to educational inequity. “The present state of education in Nigeria, where about a third of our children are not in school and over half of those in school are not learning, is not acceptable,” Oyebode said. “Every well-meaning Nigerian must, therefore, join hands to ensure that ongoing initiatives, such as Teach for Nigeria, which aim to make sure that disadvantaged children in Nigeria who lack access to an excellent education have a better chance at achieving a successful future, are encouraged and supported,” he said. Teach for Nigeria, as part of plans to expand its coverage to the Northern region, signed a Partnership Agreement with the Kaduna State government on June 25, 2018 that allows the programme to place Fellows in high-need primary schools in Kaduna to teach students for two years. The first cohort of Kaduna Fellows will begin to lead their classrooms by September 2018. This milestone brings the programme much closer to achieving its vision that one day, every Nigerian child will have the opportunity to attain an excellent education. 