The House of Representatives Joint Committee on Public Accounts and Finance probing recovered public funds from 1999-2016 at the weekend vowed to conclude its report if invited Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) fail to appear before it on Tuesday. The joint committee may also consider the recently recovered $322 million recovered former military ruler, late Sani Abacha’s loot from the Switzerland Government in 2017. Kingsley Chinda, lead chairman of the Ad-hoc Committee disclosed this while giving update on the ongoing investigative hearing into various petitions into the utilisation of the recovered funds and assets. Chinda who was flanked by Ibrahim Baba and Linus Okorie said the panel would go ahead with the probe if the MDAs fail to show up and submit its findings to the House for further legislative action. He said: “from what we experienced on Thursday, none of the government agencies attended the hearing, although the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and one other agency submitted their submissions. “But we are not deterred by their action, so if they finally decide not to come we’ll conclude our probe and submit the report on the floor of the House.” Asked whether the House will issue a Bench Warrant on the agencies, Chinda said: “No we won’t do that for now because we believe those in custody of the records are responsible and law abiding Nigerians. So we expect them to show up. “Unfortunately we invited 18 agencies and none attended but that won’t stall the proceedings of the panel as we’ll publish our findings and make available all the facts for Nigerians to see,” Chinda stressed. In his remarks, Baba Ibrahim said: “the panel was not set up to witch hunt anybody so we may not issue any warrant for now but the investigation continues as scheduled. On whether the Abacha loot recovered in December 2017 will be listed as their mandate does not cover it, Chinda said: “if there is need to include it, we’ll seek permission from the House to get it listed as what we have listed is from 1999 through 2016. “But if we get the nod to go ahead, we will go ahead and list it as part of what we need to investigate alongside other recovered funds and assets,” he noted. Recall that the joint committee had held an investigative hearing last Thursday and none of the MDAs sent representatives but the private sector was adequately represented.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 