Since 2010, Fidson Healthcare Plc has been supporting the Nigerian education system through Astymin Brilliance Reward. The programme is aimed at developing the mental and academic performance of primary school pupils through special acknowledgment and provision of educational materials. Fidson, one of Nigeria’s leading drug makers, works with ministries of education in many states. This year’s edition is scheduled to hold on August 4, 2018, at Ndubuisi Kanu Park, Lagos. It will witness the convergence of the very best graduating pupils from over two hundred private and public schools across the south-west and south-east regions, as well as parents, teachers and stakeholders in Nigerian educational system. In addition, there will be scholarship awards to three best performing WAEC candidates in 2017. All these are part of the company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. According to Ola Ijimakin, general manager, Fidson Healthcare Plc, this year’s edition is an indication of Fidson’s unrelenting commitment to supporting Nigerian children in all their academic endeavours through its Astymin brand, in line with the corporate brand promise of adding value to the lives of Nigerians as expressed in its slogan, ‘We value life’. “Like we have always emphasised, the ABR is our attempt to bring back the glory days of our education by throwing our weight behind the children’s drive for academic excellence. This is another season of delight for the kids who have worked so hard and performed exceptionally well in their academics. But for us as a brand, it is another day of celebrating excellence,” he said. “We believe it is better to catch them young and put them on the right path to success. Therefore, Astymin will continue to take the giant stride in rewarding brilliant primary school kids in a way that will motivate them to stay focused on their studies, believing that merit and hard work can still be rewarded,” he said. Explaining the rationale for the event, Ijimakin noted that Astymin Brilliance Reward is the brand’s biggest and most prestigious event. He further explained that Astymin brand supports various school programs in primary schools, adding that every month, Astymin unveils its ‘Genius of the Month’. Adesoji Fasonya, product manager, Fidson Healthcare, said Astymin sharpens the intellect and enables adults to cope with stress. Fasonya said Fidson continues to identify and follow up with the student-awardees to ensure they excel throughout their lives. Yetunde Adesola, school programmes coordinator, explained that the programme is now in many states in Nigeria, including Abuja, Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun, Ondo, Ekiti, Delta, Anambra, Enugu, Imo and Niger.  ODINAKA ANUDU 