Whereas the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) received commendations for the conduct of the Ekiti State governorship election of July 14, the issue of brazen vote-buying arising from that election continues to generate concern. Reports from both international and local observers indicate that during the election, party agents had huge cash and stayed close to voting points, party stalwarts indicated to voters where to thumbprint, and voters showed their ballot papers to party agents to collect money. “I was there in Ekiti to monitor elections and I heard a lot of reports of alleged vote buying and we are convinced that some vote buying went on. I condemn it,” said Paul Arkwright, British High Commissioner to Nigeria, after a meeting with Mahmood Yakubu, INEC chairman, in Abuja on Friday. “Vote buying is illegal; it is against the law, it is just as vote rigging, it is just as bad as ballot stuffing,” Arkwright said. As a confirmation, the police in Ekiti State on Friday arraigned 10 persons before an Ado-Ekiti Chief Magistrate’s Court for alleged vote-buying during governorship election in the state. Femi Fałade, police prosecutor, told the court that the accused persons offered money to voters to induce them to vote for their parties during the election, an action which, he said, contravened Section 130 (a) and 130 (b) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended). The trend is also casting doubts in the minds of Nigerians about the possibility of free, fair and credible elections in 2019. Amid the growing concerns, political pundits have continued to examine the factors responsible for vote buying, with many blaming the situation on the extreme poverty in the country. Yusuf Sanni, national chairman, Advanced Democratic Party (ADP), said the poverty rate in the country has been exacerbated in the past few years, stressing that the trend of vote buying would continue because there was no punitive action against the act by the government. “Vote buying is because the political class has reduced Nigerians to ordinary commodity that can be bought. This group of politicians, the APC and PDP, that are in power don’t like Nigerians nor have conscience; they have bastardised the system because of their corrupt tendencies and because they are getting away from it, it is continuing,” Sanni said. “Poverty is a state policy under this APC administration. You have to also realise that this people came into government through corrupt process. The primary election is about money; you have to bribe delegates to vote for you. This tendency has shifted to the election proper,” he said. Sanni of ADP said the solution lies in continuous voter education by the government and the civil society, as well as legislation that prescribes punishment for both vote buyers and sellers. “People should be brought to book, and as far as this impunity is allowed to continue, it would not change. If Buhari is serious about fighting corruption, why can’t he send EFCC officials to monitor parties that induced voters in the Ekiti election and apprehend them, or where else can you fight corruption if not in the process that guarantees good leadership?” he said. Eddy Olafeso, vice chairman of PDP (Southwest), blamed the increasing trend of vote buying on the extreme poverty in the country, which has worsened since the All Progressives Congress (APC) took over the mantle of leadership in 2015. He said while vote buying may have been around for a while, it was never as pronounced as it is today. “Vote buying has become more pronounced under the APC government than when PDP was in power. It is the complicity of everybody in the system – the political parties, politicians, even the security agencies. It is a shame on the country and I think the international community and election observers have condemned our elections,” he said. He added that vote buying had also contributed to bad governance in the country, saying it was why politicians, when they get into office, loot public funds to recoup the money they spent and are less concerned about their promises to the electorate during the campaigns. Nigeria has recorded worsening poverty rates in the past few years, aided by bad economic policies that led to a recession in 2016 which the country is yet to fully pull out of. Every day more Nigerians continue to slide into the squalor of poverty despite more money budgeted and spent annually across all tiers of government. A report by Brookings Institution in June 2018 showed that Nigeria has overtaken India as the nation with the highest number of extremely poor people. According to the report, Nigeria had about 87 million people in extreme poverty as at the end of May 2018, compared with India’s 73 million, with the number of Nigerians in extreme poverty increasing by six people every minute. In March, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) had said Nigerians were getting poorer, stressing the need for coherent and comprehensive economic reforms. Similarly, Iftikhar Nizami, country director of Oxfam International in Nigeria, had at a one-day colloquium on inequality in Nigeria in March raised the alarm over worsening poverty and extreme inequality in Nigeria, saying the government needed to focus on meeting the needs of people in the quest for economic development. Nizami, who was represented by Abdulazeez Musa, head of influencing, Oxfam in Nigeria, had said that though Nigeria’s economy had expanded at an average of 6 percent every year since 2006, more than half of Nigeria’s population continued to live in poverty. But Dapo Thomas, a lecturer in the Department of History and International Studies, Lagos State University (LASU), said while the high poverty rate in the country was a major cause, the trend had become pronounced in recent times because Nigerians were disenchanted with the system. “The people see the votes as their personal franchise. As a Nigerian, I have the right to determine what I do with my vote. Nigerian voters have been voting according to their conscience for decades and they have not had commensurate level of performance from the ruling class,” Thomas said. “N400 or N500 may mean much to an ordinary voter; it could solve a lot of problems. What we should also note is that the people are disappointed with the system and have lost confidence in the government to deliver on its promises. I am not saying it is good, but it shows lack of confidence by the electorate in the electoral system,” he said. Thomas said he doubted whether there was much the present administration in the country could do because it was also culpable and lacked credibility. “In normal society, you expect those party officials to be brought to book. But I don’t think the government has the moral authority to arrest these people because they are the ones doing it. I am sure the electoral law provides for it, but would they follow it?” he said. Balarabe Musa, Second Republic governor of Kaduna State, said there was little INEC could do to check the trend, stressing that only a constitutional revolution could change the trend. “I am not surprised that money plays a key role in elections in the country. Most of this money is stolen and they are using it to buy people’s conscience. And when they get back to public office, they loot the treasury to get the money back. “There has always been money in the system. When I contested for the governor of Kaduna State decades ago, I can say we spent, but mind you, spending that I mean is not about buying the voters and influencing election; it was not enough to influence election. Nowadays, money is used to dictate elections result. “What is happening is beyond INEC. The government needs to act. What is happening now has reached a level of constitutional revolution and until that is done, we should not expect anything.  But I don’t think that be done realistically with the present state of affairs in the National Assembly,” Musa said. Wale Ogunade, president, Voters Awareness Initiatives, an election observer, said that the inducement of voters across Nigeria during elections was a sign of desperation by the political class for power, charging Nigerians to rise up to resist the act if they desire good governance in the country. “It has been there for some time, but I think these days it has become more pronounced and it is a cause for serious concern. I have monitored elections in some states and I know what these parties are doing just to win at all cost. Look at what happened in Anambra, but the APC lost because the governor was on ground and had performed. “What is happening is desperation of the political class to win election at all cost. But I think it is time Nigerians should rise up and resist this; I know there is poverty in the land, but it is the same Nigerians that are complaining of bad government, unfulfilled promises. When you collect money and vote for the wrong person, don’t complain when these leaders are not performing.”