Regulatory agencies and others stakeholders who converged at the public hearing which seeks to establish Maritime Security Agency on Tuesday, expressed stiff opposition against the intendment of the bill, being considered by the House of Representatives. The proposed agency is charged with the responsibility of providing security and safety information and communication facilities for all categories of users of the Nigerians maritime industry and for other related matters. It also provides for payment of 3% of all incomes generated by seafarers from incoming and outgoing cargoes and vessels in all Nigerian territorial waters into the maritime security agency fund. The stakeholders are: Federal Ministry of Transportation, Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigeria Shippers Council (NSC) and Ship Owners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) gave the position at the public hearing held at the instance of House Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration, chaired by Umar Bago; on a bill seeking to establish the Maritime Security Agency at the National Assembly. In his presentation, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Transport explained that the proposed bill conflicts with extant provisions of NIMASA Act, 2007, with regards to powers of the administration of the Merchant Shipping Act and all other federal legislations on maritime, labour, safety and security. Amaechi who was represented by Shehu Aliyu, a Director in the Ministry, however called for the amendment of the NIMASA Act, with the view to strengthen and empower the agency to provide effective maintenance of security in Nigeria’s maritime domain. “The quest for the establishment of other agencies to run parallel to the agency, has a pretty long history. However, Government in determining to stem the emerging confusion and streamline the administration of maritime security issued the dissolution and proscription of certain associations Order 2013 pursuant to section 62(2ii) of the Criminal Code Act cap C38 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004,” he told the lawmakers. The proscribed associations are: Nigerian maritime Security agency (NMSA), Nigerian Merchant Navy Corps (NMNC) and Nigerian Merchant Navy Petroleum and Safety Corps (NMNPSC) respectively. On his part, Dakuku Peterside, NIMASA Director-General observed that the bill conflicts with the functions of the agency as encapsulated in Section 23 of NIMASA Act. While noting that the bill will promote unhealthy competition amongst existing security agencies in the maritime sector if passed into law, Peterside urged the House to step down the controversial bill forthwith. In the same vein, Chief of Naval Staff Rear Admiral Ibokete Ekwe Ibas who was represented by Rear Admiral Bee Ibe-Enwo, argued that the bill should be thrown overboard as the Nigerian Navy is capable of securing the Nigerian territorial waters. He stated that the promoters of the bill were purely on a mission to usurp the powers of the security agencies in the maritime sector particularly the Nigerian Navy which has adequate powers to man the territorial waters of Nigeria. Also speaking, Captain Ladijo, SOAN Chairman who noted that the bill was in breach of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), warned against creating a parallel agency that will jeopardize the gain recorded in the maritime sector. While declaring the public hearing open, Speaker Yakubu Dogara noted that maritime safety is key to economic growth, especially in light of the huge contributions made by the sector to economic development. “You will agree with me that the Maritime Sector is key to the success of the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) that was launched in March, this year. This is because a lot of revenue needed to revamp our economy can easily leak away if our Maritime environments are not properly managed or policed. To this end, the proposed Bill seeks to establish an Agency charged with the mandate to provide maritime security and communication in our maritime region as a separate entity from NIMASA. This is to further fortify the security arrangements in the Sector. “It is pertinent to note that Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) was established in 2007 following the passage of the NIMASA Act No 17 of 2007 by the National Assembly, which saddles the Agency with the Promotion of Maritime Safety and Security and, indeed, the protection of marine environment among others. In an effort to curb the menace and recurring security issues on our maritime domain, NIMASA was mandated to take up a primary role and finance a new Maritime Security Architecture project of the Federal government. “I have been made to realize that the Agency has stepped-up significantly the deployment of satellite surveillance Infrastructure to enable the Agency monitor shipping activities and the marine environment in real time for safety, security and administration of the maritime domain of the Nation. This package essentially exposes all illicit activities of operators while also aiding the Agency in providing the required assistance in the event of maritime distress call. It is note-worthy that the Nigerian Navy also compliments the efforts of NIMASA in ensuring that our territorial waterways are secured and free from criminal activities.” He however noted that subjecting the bill to public discourse is necessary, especially as there are concerns about duplication and additional expenditure incurred in setting up new agencies. “In view of these facts, it has become very imperative to subject this Bill to public discourse, considering the obvious facts that the Nation is grappling with the shrinking of the already lean resources available for delivering on core social infrastructure. This is more so, as some observers have argued that establishing another agency charged with same mandate as NIMASA and Nigerian Navy will ultimately translate to duplication of functions in an era when Government is finding ways to reduce the cost of administering our bureaucracy.”  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 