Given the heightening apprehension over 2019, it was heartening to hear President Buhari last Tuesday promise to conduct credible, violence-free polls in 2019. Delivering a keynote address at the 20th anniversary celebration of the International Criminal Court (ICC) at The Hague, Netherlands, July 17, Buhari said his administration would deploy every power within its reach to conduct free, fair and violence-free polls in 2019. “Contrary to the tragic incidents that characterised the 2011 general election in Nigeria which necessitated preliminary investigations by the ICC, I assure you that all hands are on deck to prevent any recurrence of such tragic incidents,” Buhari said. “We shall do everything possible to ensure that Nigeria witnesses the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections in 2019.” Recall that the 2011 elections were nearly marred by post-election violence, which led to the death of over 800 persons in the North, including 10 members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). A report by Human Rights Watch, an international non-governmental organisation that conducts research and advocacy on human rights, said that deadly election-related and communal violence in northern Nigeria following the April 2011 presidential voting left more than 800 people dead, adding that the victims were killed in three days of rioting in 12 northern states. It said the protests degenerated into violent riots or sectarian killings in the northern states of Adamawa, Bauchi, Borno, Gombe, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Niger, Sokoto, Yobe, and Zamfara, with relief officials estimating that more than 65,000 people must have been displaced. Corinne Dufka, then senior West Africa researcher at Human Rights Watch, had also said that although the presidential election was heralded as among the fairest in Nigeria’s history, it also was among the bloodiest. “The newly elected authorities should quickly build on the democratic gains from the elections by bringing to justice those who orchestrated these horrific crimes and addressing the root causes of the violence,” Dufka had said. Indeed, the Federal Government Panel on the 2011 Elections Violence and Civil Disturbances headed by Sheikh Ahmed Lemu had, in its report submitted in October 2011, identified provocative utterances by many individuals as part of the causes of the post-election violence. “Provocative utterances by many individuals and the widespread charge by prominent politicians, including the CPC presidential candidate, to the electorate to ‘guard their votes’, ‘appeared’ to have been misconstrued by many voters to include recourse to violence,” the report had said. The then CPC presidential candidate, now President Muhammadu Buhari, had, however, denied making inciting utterances, saying that the panel and the then government were executing a pre-determined agenda since PDP and President Goodluck Jonathan had earlier accused the CPC of being responsible for the mayhem even before the panel was raised. The 2015 elections also generated similar apprehension, with many Nigerians with the means relocating their families abroad for fear of eruption of post-election violence. Former President Jonathan, however, saved the day when he conceded defeat and called to congratulate Buhari, his major challenger and candidate of the APC in the election. INEC has also continued to commit to free and fair elections in 2019. At a one-day national consultation with key stakeholders on importance of women in politics organised by Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) in Benin, the Edo State capital, in June, Mahmoud Yakubu, INEC chairman, assured Nigerians that the electoral body was committed to conducting a free, fair and inclusive election. Yakubu was represented at the event by Blessing Obidegwu, deputy director, Gender Division, INEC headquarters. But analysts say verbal assurances alone are not enough, urging Buhari, the APC and INEC to walk the talk. “If antecedents are anything to go by, then we have no reason to believe any promises made by the Buhari government. How many of the promises made on the campaign trail in 2015 have been fulfilled today? Rather, this government and the APC turned around and denied all the promises,” said a Lagos-based public affairs commentator on condition of anonymity. “But on this very issue of free and fair elections in 2019, Buhari must not renege on his promise if he still has any love left for Nigeria. Not doing so will spell doom for this country,” he said.