C3 Africa, Nigeria’s first and largest content market returns this July  with a exclusive networking event which will announce the C3 Africa content markets across Africa for 2018 -2019, and feature powerful & insightful, narrative sessions which will unveil the secrets to succeeding in the emerging industry. The event will be opened by  media veteran and guru ,Obi Asika the founder of Social Media Week. He will spearhead a conversation tagged WELCOME TO NOLLYWOOD. Sam Onyemelukwe MD of Trace Nigeria is poised to share  his personal  journey, life hacks and growth as a business leader in the entertainment industry. He will speak extensively on African made global content,distribution,regulation, piracy. Onyemelukwe will  analyse dimensions of  AFRICAN CONTENT by AFRICA. Veteran women in the business of film & TV take center stage in the panel session CONTENT IS QUEEN. They will share their vision for the industry, tackle hard topics and also speak on the light and dark side of the burgeoning industry. The panelists include Chioma Ude, Founder, Director AFRIFF ,Biola Alabi – Ceo, BAM,Ngozin Madueke Dozie – MD, IFLIX. The Symposium will also shine a light on young women behind the scenes of the industry in a series of  panel sessions titled,WOMEN BEHIND THE SCENES. The panelists  include young female power players  that propel the industry  behind the cameras, this include Temidayo Abudu – Head Of Production, Ebony Life, Lolu Popoola ,Head Marketing, FilmOne, Mariella Mostyn-Williams – CEO, Prima Vista (England /Ghana), Jade Osiberu – Director, ISOKEN. The Symposium will feature the cast of Lara and the Beat, the new sensational movie form the stable of Biola Alabi media at an all revealing press conference. Veteran Comedic Actor  Hafeez  Oyetoro, will bring the show to an end ,he is poised to  take center stage, sharing his thoughts on the growth of the Industry  and will pay homage to  the G.O.A.T.s (Greatest Of All Time) of the film industry both behind and in front of the Camera.