In a new code of corporate governance, the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRC) has proposed the separation of roles of board chairman from the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (MD/CEO) of the Company such that no person can combine the two positions going forward. As contained in the draft document which is currently being exposed for inputs by stakeholders, the chairman of the board is also no longer expected to serve as the chairman or a member of any board committee while the MD/CEO or executive directors should not function as the chairman of any board. The Council also proposed that Directors of companies operating in the country should not be members of Boards of competing companies to avoid conflict of interest, breach of confidentiality, diversion of corporate opportunity and divulgence of corporate information. In the document sighted by BusinessDay, the Council also proposed that directors may hold concurrent directorships, but fears however that concurrent service on too many Boards may interfere with an individual’s ability to discharge his responsibilities. To assist the Board in determining the appropriateness of concurrent directorships, the FRC suggests that “Prospective Directors should disclose memberships on other Boards, and current Directors should notify the Board of prospective appointments on other Boards. This information should be kept current by serving Board members. “The Board should consider the disclosed directorships, taking into account the number of other directorships and the responsibilities held, and determine whether the individual can discharge his responsibilities and contribute effectively to the performance of the Board before recommending such a person for appointment or continued service. “Directors should not be members of Boards of competing Companies to avoid conflict of interest, breach of confidentiality, diversion of corporate opportunity and divulgence of corporate information. Also, “a person or group of individuals who is not a serving Director of the Company should not exercise any influence or dominance over the Board and/or Management. Such a person or group of individuals would be deemed a shadow director as defined by extant laws. The FRC held the fourth leg of the public hearing on the exposure draft code in Abuja recently having held in the South-East, South-South and North-East zones of the country.
The Public hearing which commenced in Owerri a couple of weeks ago is slated to hold in all geopolitical zones of the country and the Federal Capital Territory. “It is our belief that this Code will promote ease of doing business, attract local and foreign investments and enhance the integrity of the Nigerian capital market, by entrenching a culture of disclosure, transparency and accountability. In addition, this Code will raise public awareness of good corporate governance practices,” Daniel Asapokhai, Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, FRC, stated at the Public Hearing held in Abuja. The new code has adopted the ‘Apply and Explain’ principle, which requires companies to apply the requirements of the Code and to explain how they did so. According to Asapokhai, “The decision to adopt the ‘Apply and Explain’ approach was made after careful considerations of several factors including the Nigerian legal system, Nigerian culture and history, government policies, state of the Nigerian economy, global economic and political climate, and levels of capital inflow of investment coming into the country.” The Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018 contains 28 principles and over 230 practices and was developed based on a comprehensive review of the suspended 2016 Code of Corporate Governance by a fifteen-man technical committee, and extensive consultative and collaborative engagement with a wide range of stakeholders and other regulators. The FRC CEO also stressed that the Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance 2018 shall apply to all public companies; whether listed or not, all private companies that are holding companies of public companies and other regulated entities, concessioned and privatised companies, and regulated private companies. “However, we are recommending to all institutions to adopt it because it sets the pace for national standards,” Asapokhai urged. He assured that in a few weeks, the Council would come up with a national code which “meets the needs and objectives of all the stakeholders,” adding that all companies whether listed or not are expected to adopt the code once operational. The Public Hearing was attended by the members of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture, the media, and a host of other dignitaries from both the private and public sectors. The event witnessed comments and reactions from stakeholders, public entities to whom the code will apply, the media, and public, all of which will be taken into consideration in finalising the Code. “I must say that the Public Hearings have really been impactful,” the CEO stressed The Financial Reporting Council, FRC, of Nigeria is a federal government agency established by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria Act No. 6, 2011, under the supervision of the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment. The FRC is responsible for, among other things, developing and publishing accounting and financial reporting standards to be observed in the preparation of financial statements of public entities in Nigeria and monitor compliance with reporting requirements specified in the adopted Code of Corporate Governance for related matters.  Onyinye Nwachukwu, Abuja 