The length of time, in days, that it takes for Beta glass, Meyer paint and Chemical and Allied Products (CAP) to convert resource inputs into cash flows amplified to 198, 32, and 82 days in 2017 from 99, -8, and 47 days in 2014 respectively showing some liquidity risks worry for growth and possible expansion.  A cash conversion cycle is snapshot of the way a company’s working capital is being used.  “The implication for these companies is that they would have elongated periods between paying for raw materials and receiving cash from goods sold. Consequently, these companies may witness higher finance cost on borrowings due to the longer periods of cash conversion cycle (CCC),” said Ayodeji Ebo, CEO of Afrinvest said in a mail to BusinessDay  “The longer CCC may be attributed to slow movement of goods due to the depressed consumer spending. We expect the speedy implementation of the 2018 budget would boost consumer spending as well as campaigns spending. Nonetheless, these companies will continue to explore more options to reduce cost of production as well as operation to improve their margins,” Ebo said.  BusinessDay analysis of some companies that make up the industrial goods index, show that the CCC of Beta glass increased to 198 days at the end of 2017 from 99 days in 2014, meaning the time it takes for the company to get back cash from its operation increased by 99 days.  In the same vein, Meyers went from -8 days as at 2014 to 32 days at the end of 2017 in its CCC.  For chemical and Allied Product, its CCC went up by 35 days, with its inventory days rising by 38 days from 62 days at 2014 to 100 days at 2017. This means that it takes it longer to sell its inventory. However it still enjoys a good line of credit structure as it receives cash from its debtors within 2 days, faster than it has to pay its creditors in 20 days.  Beta Glass, CAP and Meyer have one year returns of 57 percent, 3.5 percent and -6.85 percent compared to the 17 percent return of the broader market.  On his part, Tajudeen Ibrahim, head of research at Chapel Hill Denham said “I think there’s been a need for them to allow for some credit flexibility because of the consumer spending environment especially during the period the country was in recession.”  “For you to get your products out there and moving in the market, I think it is just natural for you to allow some flexibility in your credit policies but I believe that managements of these companies are monitoring the trend.”  “What matters is medium to long term cash flow generating capacity of these companies, we shouldn’t really be looking at the short term because you can be sure that in a one year period they can declare and pay dividend and the companies in mention have demonstrated a good track record of dividend payment.”  Cement Company of Northern Nigeria (CCNN), another company in the index saw a reduction in its CCC. The company’s inventory days reduced by 24 days, an indication that they are becoming more efficient and selling products faster. Also, Dangote Cement was able to reduce its CCC to 18 days from 28 days in the same period showing they received their cash from sales much faster than they pay off their debt.  The cash conversion cycle is a cash flow calculation that attempts to measure the time it takes a company to convert its investment in inventory and other resource inputs into cash. CCC looks at how long cash is tied up in inventory before the inventory is sold and cash is collected from customers.  We derived the CCC of the above mentioned companies by adding the days inventory outstanding to the days sales outstanding and subtracting the days payable outstanding.