Delphino Entertainment company  has said that it plans to use its upcoming Picnic event this July to harness the potentials of  individuals, who will grace its event this year to socialize, network and  empower creative minds  in order to boost businesses in diverse ways. Executive Director of Dephino Entertainment, Onoja Adole, noted in a chart with reporters that the picnic is an Abuja event that has been happening since 2012, which serves as a united platform  for people from every age ranging from kids to adults to the age of 65. He stressed that everybody comes together in a particular location to re-connect, reunite, spend time with family members, friends, business partners, colleague among others. Adole added that it is also an avenue for people to come and socialise, network and be happy, stressing that it is just an open event that people come with their picnic blanket, enjoy good music, refreshments, different games for children, and also an avenue for networking between individuals, family and also to discuss business plans and ideas and how to pursue them. He said: “Previously we have the light of Davido, Ice Prince, Adekunle Gold, Style Plus, Iyanya, Teckno. in every edition there is always a different form of entertainment,  we naturally do not do this because of the entertainment attached to it, but an avenue for people to come out and experienc a nice environment out door and there is no restriction to any kind of fun you want to have” “The door is open to anyone that wants to come because we are not creating a political environment, but we are hopeful to have politicians come because the last time we have about 5,800 people. it will be a good avenue for any politician that want to come and interact directly with the youths and hear what they actually feel about the situation of the Nation and the economy. “But the truth is that we have a lot of Senators and house of Reps members who come there quietly on their own to enjoy themselves. I just want to basically empower creative minds because a creative economy is that one that has been looked down upon, if you have about 5,800 people gathered under one platform that is the biggest direct marketing platform you can have anywhere”. he added.