The incessant cases of armed attacks being out by bandits operating in police uniforms along Kabba –Obajana in Kogi state, is now a source of deep concern to motorists using the road. Some of the motorists are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) to probe the occurrences with a view to ascertain whether operatives of the Nigerian Police are actually involved in the incidences. The call is coming on the heel of an attack carried out in the early hours of last Sunday by the bandits on a vehicle conveying some personnel of a Kano based Clearing and Forwarding Company- Abyem-Diva International Limited, who were traveling on the road. Confirming the incidence, the Personal Assistant (PA) to Chief Executive Officer of the company, Timothy Kayode, who was a victim of the attack, told journalists that the incidence occurred around 7.30am when he and the driver of the vehicle were traveling on the road after representing his boss at a function in a nearby town of Ife-Olukotun. “The incidence happened around 7.30am last Sunday, when the Driver and I, were traveling on the road as we heading towards a village known as ‘Oke –Ibuku’, we first heard a loud bullet shots, and suddenly some men in Police Uniform emerged and started shooting at our car. “As the shooting continued, the driver quickly maneuvered the car, and put it in a reverse and started moving back on a high speed, but, some of the bullets penetrated the car and hit the driver on one of his legs. “The bullets aimed at the Driver`s head narrowly missed him, hitting side of the driver`s seat, but we were luck, the driver was able to manoeuvred the car to safety”, Kayode disclosed. Also confirming the incidence, Jeremiah Samuel, the driver of the car, revealed that the men in police uniform who opened fire on their vehicle were not seen with any Police vehicle as at the time of the incident. Samuel cautioned motorists using the road to be more careful whenever, they are being stopped at road-blocks mounted by people wearing police uniforms, who are not seen with Police Vehicle. Commenting on the development, Oladare John, one of the stakeholders in Kogi West Geo –Zone of Kogi State, called on the IG of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to beef up security on the road, to check the tide of incessant kidnappings and robberies taking place on the road daily. “We the stakeholders in Kogi West are deeply worried by the growing cases of kidnapping, armed robbery and killing of innocent people on this road. We are particularly disturbed because this incidences are being attributed to people seen to be wearing Police Uniforms. “This trend has been continuing for a long time, and the Police leadership seems helpless in tackling this degenerating security situation that is bring hardship and suffering on people in that part of the state. ‘We want President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene by prevailing on the IGP to address the security challenge confronting the area”, John pleaded