Rite Foods Limited has received the Quality Management System certification from the Standards Organisation of Nigeria, the representative of the International Organisation for Standardization in Nigeria.  The certification, known as the ISO 9001: 2015 is an international standard which is given to organizations that demonstrate the ability to consistently provide products and services that meet customer and regulatory requirements.  Osita Aboloma, director general/chief executive, Standard Organisation of Nigeria said the ISO achievement was a demonstration of the conformity of Rite Foods management systems to internationally acceptable standard requirements with focus on continual improvement.  Aboloma, who was represented by Mojisola Kehinde, director of laboratory services, said this recently during the presentation of the ISO certification to Rite Foods Limited at its factory in Ososa, Ogun State.  ‘‘By the presentation of this certification today, Rite Foods Limited is adjudged to have a system that gives customers and interested parties’ assurance of your ability to consistently provide products that meet relevant requirements,’’ he stated. ‘‘This focus on production of quality products will also strengthen your competitive strategies.’’  The director general applauded Rite Foods for putting a quality management system in place to demonstrate commitment to consumer satisfaction and adherence to statutory and regulatory requirements in the country.  ‘‘By this achievement, Rite Foods have gained her place among a privileged class of Quality Management System certified organisations in Nigeria,’’ said Aboloma.  He stressed the need for consistency in the production of quality products and challenged Rite Foods to ensure that the system remain effective to reap the benefits of ISO Quality management. ‘‘The production of quality products is of great interest to the nation since it promotes public health especially in the face of the prevailing health challenges in the country,’’ he said.  The SON boss also called on private and public organisations that were yet to get the certification to do so to enjoy the benefits of ISO management approach.  ‘‘This milestone achievement in the pursuit of production of quality product is worthy of emulation by all food and beverage industries,’’ he said. ‘‘The approach provides you robust, globally recognised and acceptable solutions to address the challenges associated with consistently meeting requirements and addressing future needs and expectations of your customers in an increasingly dynamic food and beverage production environment,’’ Aboloma added.  Seleem Adegunwa, managing director, Rite Foods Limited said the journey towards achieving the certification was enjoyable, educational and beneficial for the organisation.  ‘‘The processes towards achieving the certification was not just for the certification alone, rather it is a culture we have chosen to imbibe in our everyday operation,’’ he said.  Adegunwa reiterated the company’s commitment to remain truly world-class and proudly Nigeria adding that the company is making efforts daily to ensure that the world begins to recognise and associate being Nigerian with the very highest quality. ‘‘It is no secret that Rite Foods Limited has one of the highest standards of quality when it comes to food production and food safety processes, and we are glad to put a stamp on it today to mark what has always been our standard,’’ he said.  ‘‘Rite Foods has the best production facility among all its competing brands on the continent. This is so we can have a heritage which we all can be proud of as Nigerians. This would put our country on the world map as an industrial force to reckon with.’’  On how they were able to maintain price and quality at a time when other Fast-Moving Consumer Good Companies where either hiking product prices, reducing quality or quantity, Adegunwa said attributed it to the firm’s symbol of quality and long-term focus.  ‘‘The journey for us is a very long one. If you are focused on profitability today, you will have a problem. So, because of the fact that we are very long-term, we cannot tamper with our products,’’ he said.  ‘‘We are very conscious of our symbol of quality. We just bear the losses knowing that tomorrow will be better. If anything, we are looking at how we can improve quality.’’  He also assured consumers who are worried about the visibility of Rite Foods products in some states the company is working towards ensuring proper product circulation across the country.  ‘‘Expansion plans are in place. By the end of this year, there should be additional capacity to take care of that,’’ he added.  Rite Foods Limited was established in 2007 as a subsidiary of E-ssay Holdings Group. Founded in 1963, the E-ssay Holdings Group started in the photography business, by the mid-2000, the group diversified into the FMCG sector with the birth of Rite Foods Limited.