The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR or the Regulation) became operative on May 25, 2018and it is expected to have a profound effect on the management of personal data by data controllers and processors globally. Its far reaching provisions are expected to pose complex compliance challenges to organisations that process personal information worldwide, including Nigerian businesses.
One of the key changes to the Regulation is its extra-territorial application. It provides that where a business not located in the E.U processes personal data (Personal data is defined under the Regulation as ‘’any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural person.’’) in relation to (a) the offering of goods or services within the European Union (E.U), irrespective of whether or not a payment is required, or (b) the monitoring of the behavior of individuals within the E.U, such a business will be required to comply with the provisions of the Regulation. Therefore the Regulation may be applicable to a Nigerian business that processes personal data of E.U citizens or residents in relation to the offering or provision of good or services or monitors their behavior in any way shape or form. This is irrespective of the fact that such business does not have an office or employees physically present in the E.U.
If a Nigerian business targets E.U citizens or residents via the internet, markets in a language spoken in one or more E.U countries, agrees to accept a currency used in an E.U country for goods or services offered, offers to ship goods to E.U countries, appoints sales agents in E.U countries, represents that it has customers in the E.U, tracks persons resident in the EU or monitors their behavior in order to predict spending patterns or their behavior online e.t.c, such a business will be subject to the Regulation. It is important to note that it is not necessary for a financial transaction to have occurred before the business comes under the purview of the Regulation.
Some of the Nigerian businesses that may need to comply with the regulations may include e-commerce companies, airlines, logistics, travel and hospitality companies, digital advertising companies, software companies, application developers, Nigerian companies employing E.U citizens, payment systems processing companies, telecommunication companies, internet services providers, cloud services providers, fintechs, recruitment agencies, hotels, law firms, and global mobility specialists.
There is some uncertainty as to how the GDPR will be enforced against companies that, even though are caught by its provisions, are located outside the E.U and without any physical presence in the E.U. Enforcement can be directly against the representative of the business within the jurisdiction, if any, though still without prejudice to any legal action that may be instituted against the business itself. The service or the website of the infringing company may be blocked. Where there is a sale and or delivery of physical goods, the goods may be seized on arrival in the E.U. Trade restrictions may be placed on the company’s goods and services or the goods may be banned from being sold in the E.U. Where the company has assets within the E.U, the assets may be frozen or seized. In addition, the assets of the company in other jurisdictions that recognize judgments of the E.U might also be frozen or seized.
Some of the steps Nigerian businesses that the GDPR may be applicable to need to take include – (i) audit, review, update and publicize data protection and privacy policies, payment policies and terms of use of their websites or services offered to the public to make it GDPR compliant (ii) Implement data protection procedures (ii) Review and amend contracts with suppliers and vendors that may be involved in activities involving the processing of personal data to ensure they are GDPR compliant. (iii) Train employees on GDPR compliance. (iv) Ensure only necessary personal data is collected and stored and further review data storage procedures (v) Ensure the deployment of appropriate technical and administrative processes to ensure adequate security for stored data. (vi)Where the business is involved in large scale data processing, appoint a Data Protection Officer. (vii) Consent process must be clear, unambiguous and expressly provided by data subjects. (viii) Implement data breach detection and notification processes. (ix) Where a third party is engaged to process personal information contractually (x) extract a guarantee that they will implement appropriate security measures that are GDPR compliant. (xi) In designing products ensure compliance with privacy by design and default requirements and be proactive. (xii) Adopt solutions such as data masking, encryption, and pseudonymization to protect customer data. (xiii) Consider appropriate insurance coverage particularly where the business processes personal data on a large scale.  ROTIMI AKAPO Rotimi Akapo is a partner at Advocaat Law Practice 