Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari last Wednesday gave a hint that he would sign the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) treaty soon. Buhari disclosed this after his meeting with South Africa’s president Cyril Ramaphosa at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. It is believed that Ramaphosa convinced Buhari of the gains of the AfFTA, having himself appended his signature on the treaty earlier in the month. Trade experts believe the AfCFTA will  create a single market for Africa’s 1.2 billion people, exposing each country to a $3.4 trillion opportunity. However, findings show that some of the supporters of the trade treaty in Nigeria do not understand its elements. Experience at the stakeholder engagement in Lagos showed that some of the private sector players discussing the trade treaty were only looking at the benefits generically, without taking time to study various protocols associated with it. Discussions were basically on what Nigeria stood to gain. Little was said about the AfCFTA’s associated risks. What this means is that there is a need for Nigeria’s chief negotiator Chiedu Osakwe and his team to educate critical stakeholders on the contents of Protocol on Trade in Goods, Protocol on Dispute Settlement, and other relevant protocols. Secondly, there is a need for more engagement with Nigerian manufacturers that will be directly affected by the AfCFTA. Manufacturers have raised critical questions which need not be ignored. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) says, for instance, that the adoption of the 90:10 percent market access ratios, which are expected to be achieved in five years lacks empirical basis and evidence of due consultation. MAN says there is a need for an Offensive Export Market Discovery Study to reveal specific manufactured products which might be in high demand in each African country; products demands that may be satisfied by Nigeria’s manufactured products (now and near future); tariff and non-tariff related market access constraints which currently limit Nigerians from exploring opportunities available in the continental export market, and extent of AfCFTA tariff liberalisation needed to realise the opportunity. It adds that Nigeria must conduct a Defensive National Economic and Industrial Priority Study to reveal the specific products that may be negatively impacted or threatened by import liberalisation in Nigeria in the context of AfCFTA; consequences of continental import penetration on Nigerian firms; and impact on government and the economy, among others. While signing the AfCFTA is a no-brainer for Nigeria, there is a need for Nigeria to have data-driven evidence that will support gains of the trade treaty. This is because the AfCFTA is not all about gains; it also comes with associated risks.