Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, on Tuesday called for underscored the need for Judiciary to undertake necessary reforms geared toward protecting the integrity of the election process and enhance legitimacy. Dogara gave the charge during while speaking on ‘State Houses of Assembly on Pre-and Post-Elections Adjudication and Constitutional Separation of Powers’ at the ongoing ‘Parliamentary Open week’ with the theme: ‘Advancing inclusive governance through legislative openness’, holding in Abuja.
He explained that the Open week was “organised to foster a very healthy relationship with our fellow citizens in the bid to sustain our democracy. “The thrust of this interactive session is the pre and post-election adjudication and constitutional separation of powers in Nigeria. Most elections today take place in highly politicized environments where participants are becoming more and more distrustful of their political opponents and the electoral management body (EMB) that administers the elections. “Given the nature and context of the whole process, it is inevitable for elections officials to commit administrative and procedural errors and for the political participants to raise allegations of fraud, violence, intimidations and other violations of election laws.
“It is thus crucial for election preparations to always include the development of an effective and credible mechanism to address all election related disputes and complaints. “An effective and credible complaint adjudication system is most important when the electoral outcome is challenged in a hotly contested election. Such a system can give the rightful winner the needed authority and legitimacy to govern effectively.
“Conversely, the same system can provide appropriate corrective remedies (e.g. the conduct of fresh elections) to victims of electoral fraud and other forms of irregularities and criminal conduct. “The effective resolution of electoral complaints is integral to the integrity and legitimacy of an election. If the rules governing the resolution of election claims are incoherent or do not provide for effective remedies, or if arbiters are biased or poorly trained, the adjudication process can destabilize governments, undermine public trust, and engender violence. “The judiciary thus serves as the pivot of the rule of law, through the adjudication of disputes. Its primary role is to guard against the abusive and arbitrary use of powers and to maintain symmetry between the citizens and the government, government and government and the three arms of government by ways of interpretation and application of the laws of the land. “This is why the judiciary is often regarded as the last hope of the ordinary citizen. The judiciary has an essential role to play in electoral dispute resolution by providing avenues for electoral grievances to be resolved. Electoral justice is therefore the process by which the legal system comes to the aid of the electoral process to ensure that the will of the electorate in choosing its representatives to run affairs of state is protected. “Yet courts, especially courts in emerging democracies such as ours, are sometimes limited in their ability to effectively perform this function.
“The intense bursts in which election petitions are filed, the short time limits in which election matters must be dispensed, their political sensitivity, and the public interest in their outcomes, collectively mean that electoral cases cannot be treated the same as other matters that come before the judiciary. One of the ongoing challenges facing us therefore is ensuring the judiciary is adequately prepared to handle disputes challenging election results in a timely, fair and effective manner. “Several reasons have been identified for delays in delivering electoral justice. These include: conflicts generated by political parties mainly due to lack of intra-party democracy, for instance in the process of electing party leaders and candidates for elections; use of state resources; role of godfathers, etc.
“Secondly, until 2015, it was generally perceived that the Election Monitoring Bodies in Nigeria did not act credibly or in a transparent manner. There were serious allegations of corruption, lack of transparency, and scheming by politicians and functionaries at the highest levels. “Where EMBs are believed to deliver a predetermined outcome, legal disputes become inevitable which in turn create unnecessary burden on the judiciary both before and after the elections. It is generally believed that mature, responsible political parties and credible, professional and independent EMBs will deliver credible elections and reduce considerably the use of the courts to settle election disputes. “The National Assembly has been at the forefront of electoral reforms in Nigeria since 2011. In view of the gaps in the legal framework of our electoral process identified after the 2015 general elections, the 8th National Assembly worked on several Electoral Reform Bills preparatory to the 2019 elections.
“On 8th June, 2018, President Buhari signed into law the Constitutional Alteration Bills which included the bill relating to the determination of pre-election matters. The amendment authorises the conclusion of disputes arising from the nomination of candidates for elections before the general election and reduces the date and time of determining pre-election matters to ensure that pre-election matters in court do not get into the time of the elections and do not end thereafter. “Also, the new amendment increases the number of days that the electoral commission has to conduct election run-off from seven to 21 days. The National Assembly is committed to undertaking further reforms to limit disputes, protect integrity of the election process and enhance legitimacy.
“The issues before us at this interactive session therefore, include how to ensure election disputes are speedily, effectively and credibly resolved, and how the legislature and the judiciary can collaborate in this regard.
“Efforts to reform the electoral process must also focus on the judiciary because of the central role it plays not only in resolving electoral disputes but also in ensuring the integrity of electoral processes. “Enhancing the capacity of the judges to perform this crucial function would be an important first step because the public expects judges to be knowledgeable, objective and independent.
“Yet, the judiciary can also be exploited to undermine democratic processes. Courts have been used in the past in many parts of Africa to legitimize undemocratically constituted governments. There is also a danger for the court to succumb to excessive judicial intervention in electoral matters (‘judicialisation of electoral politics’). “I hope, through this interaction, we would be able to share ideas on how to continuously improve our institutional/structural arrangements, strengthen elections tribunals and make them more functional, reinforce procedural safeguards (such as time limits for election petitions, timely disposal of elections disputes, improving rules of procedure, harmonisation of elections jurisprudence etc.), and strengthen normative safeguards (such as integrity of issues, competence of judges, training and oversight).
“We should also explore other options and mechanisms such as Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR),” he noted.