“An economist is someone who sees something in practice and wonders if it would work in theory.” – Unattributed
You would not be surprised to discover that higher demand pushes the price of a product higher, or that more expensive insurance premiums discourage reckless driving. And judging by evidence across developing countries, microinsurance can transform the lives of the poor.
Economics has many accurate predictions and prescriptions, many of which we unconsciously follow in our daily lives. Moreover, these prescriptions apply even when we ignore them. No matter how many times Nigeria attempts it, fixing the price of widely-used items (petrol, foreign exchange) will lead to scarcity and roundtripping.
Yet, rather often, economic prescriptions fail to translate into practical experience, and there is a divide between economic theory and reality. The process is always the same: an economist creates a model to explain a pattern of behaviour, which fits historical data and passes empirical tests but collapses once implemented through policy. Nigeria’s worst experience of this can be found in the failure of Structural Adjustment Programs recommended by the International Monetary Fund in the 1980s.
And this divide between economic theory and practical experience is apparent even in micro cases. For examples, economic theory struggles to explain why petty corruption increases among the police when their salaries are doubled. Answer: it increases their appetite for bribes.
Although we see the divide in other disciplines, it seems larger in economics. Perhaps this is because economic theory itself is shaky and there is rarely a consensus. Despite being the biggest macroeconomic concern in the last two centuries, we still don’t have a unifying theory of how countries become wealthier in the long-run.
Why is the divide so wide? Economics pays little attention to the realism of its assumptions. Milton Friedman, the father of the Chicago School of Economics, the most influential economic thought in the second half of the 20th Century, popularised the idea that assumptions don’t matter, predictions do. Hence, economic theory has often been basedon assumptions known to be wrong and often ridiculous, assuming people have perfect self-control, are purely self-interested, and completely rational—the oft-caricatured homo economicus.
The truth is that the realism of assumptions is relevant for the predictive power of our models. We have made some progress in realism, thanks to behavioural economics, can now explain patterns of behaviour that eludes traditional theory, like why people pay for annual gym memberships and then stop going after a month. A lot of these insights are being putin use in Western economies. The United Kingdom has a behavioural insights team that works with the government to optimise government policy using behavioural science, and everyone from the United Nations to the World Bank has behavioural insights teams. The rationale is simple: the more our assumptions tally with reality, the more our predictions will tally with reality.
This issue has severe real-world implications given the ubiquity of economists in the public sphere. In entrusting policy to a field with more theoretical understanding than practical aptitude, we risk further policy failure. If economists had their way, petrol subsidies would be removed in Nigeria. But many economists ignore two key variables in the discussion: the failure of Nigerian governance and the absence of public trust. Once we account for these, subsidies become a social issue as much as an economic one, and the decision comes down to whether the economic arguments against trump the social realities in favour. (Side note: they probably do)
Once we understand the limits of economic theory, we can turn our attention to the important matters. Nigeria’s annual budget compares unfavourably to its peers in per-capita terms, but an outlined focus on social safety nets and infrastructure spending has tremendous economic potential. However, bickering over the breakdown of the budget—what it says on paper—has come at the expense of execution, which often manifests in late passage and substandard implementation. On average, only 70% of the budget is implemented, and this figure is even less for capital projects and social investment programs (SIP). Despite budgeting nearly a trillion naira over two years for SIPs, the conditional cash transfer scheme has reached under three hundred thousand people in 21 states.
In addition, we stop fixating on discovering the “right” economic answer. It always depends. For example, supporters of the Central Bank’s foreign exchange restrictions from a few years ago were quick to point out Egypt’s high 2017 inflation when they floated their currency, while dissenters then seemed to have the last laugh when Egypt’s inflation fell below Nigeria’s in May 2018. The argument rages on.
Or take Nigeria’s borrowing strategy. Are we borrowing too much? Economic theory provides thresholds to answer this question—debt to GDP ratio, debt-servicing ratio—and these give mixed messages. The answer may lie simply in how the money is spent. As Robert Asogwa, a sitting member of the CBN Monetary Policy Committee said, “Public debt not backed by productive assets will always be a potential danger to the economy in the near future.”
There are simple solutions for bridging the divide between economic theory and reality. The first is to improve on our body of knowledge. Although theoretical consensus would be difficult to achieve—and not necessarily desirable—we can improve on the realism of our assumptions. Too little is known about the economic peculiarities of Nigerian culture and how it differs from our usual assumptions about economic agents. In addition, we need to get more acquainted with the real-world through better use of data and experiments. A mix of data and experimentation would help us understand people/economy better and determine which theories fit. *The views expressed in this article are personal to the author and may not reflect the opinion of Vetiva Capital Management Limited or any of its affiliates.  Michael Famoroti Michael Famoroti is Chief Economist at Vetiva Capital Management Limited 