The Muhammad Ali Pate international school of public health, University of Medical Sciences, UNIMED, Ondo is to commence full operation in the 2019/2020 academic session. This decision was reached at the first full meeting of the board of the school named after the former Minister of State for Health, Muhammad Ali Pate. Friday Okonofua, vice-chancellor, University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, in his welcome address described the establishment of the school of public health as icing on the cake and a step to improve health care policies and practices in Africa. “The naming of the School after this noble Nigerian has received wide acclaim from the government and the good people of Ondo State as well as from those who know the significance of the contributions that Prof. Pate has made to the principles of health governance in our dear country”, Okonofua said. Also speaking Muhammad Ali Pate, chairman of the board, Muhammad Ali Pate International School of Public Health, expressed his readiness to contribute to the success of the school. “I really want to state how honoured I feel by the decision of Ondo State Government and the University to associate me with this undertaking. I also promise my whole commitment to help in whatever ways I can to make this a successful undertaking for the University of Medical Sciences, for the people of Ondo State, for our country, our continent and for humanity”, Pate stated. He commended the vice-chancellor, University of Medical Sciences, UNIMED, Ondo, Friday Okonofua on his visionary leadership before and after his appointment as the VC of the university. “For me, it’s very inspiring to see what Okonofua has done before coming here and also while he has been here, for me it shows the power of positive example. And for Ondo State to establish the University of this kind and its decision to establish the school of public health is a very good example for us in Nigeria and for the region”, Pate said. The board thereafter deliberated extensively on the plan for curriculum development, international collaboration, infrastructural development plans and fund-raising ideas. The board of the Muhammad Ali Pate International School of Public Health has Muhammad Ali Pate as chairman while Friday Okonofua, FAS is the vice-chairman. Other members of the Board are A. O Fatusi, Mike Egboh, Adhiambo Odaga, Eugene Kongnyuy, Dayo Adeyanju, Dabesaki Mac-Ikemenjima, Benjamin Uzochukwu, PM.C. Asusu, Roseangela Nwuba, Yemisi Jeff-Agboola, Muyi Aina, Muntaqa Umar Sadiq and Walter Osungbemiro (Secretary).  ANTHONIA OBOKOH 