The second edition of the Africa Fintech Foundry (AFF) Hackathon will among other things, address challenges in the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG), agriculture and financial services sectors in Nigeria. The Hackathon, which will hold in July 2018, plans to bring together multiple teams of talented developers, designers, problem-solvers, unconventional thinkers, and coders to provide solutions addressing the many problems faced in the sectors. To achieve that, the teams will be expected to utilise big data analytics, identity management and behavioural analysis to identify customers’ needs, providing investment advice and lending services. They will also focus on improving credit scoring and financing opportunities for small and medium scale enterprises. “AFF remains fully committed to being at the forefront of the fintech space in Nigeria,” Adeleke Adekoya, business and digital solutions architect for AFF said in a statement. “We have received enormous support from our partners and with the technology available for participants to explore and leverage, we strongly believe the prototypes from the Hackathon will be of the highest standard.” This year’s edition is supported by companies like Unilever, Dell, AFEX, Trium Networks, Microsoft, IBM, SaS, and Terragon. “The coming of the digital age and its consequent disruptive influences is driving traditional financial services providers to either adapt or become obsolete,” Ade Bajomo, executive director, Access Bank Plc, said. The bank is one of partners of the Hackathon. “Only operators that understand the new demands of the market leverage the emerging technologies, agile business practices, personalised customer preferences and work in partnership with fintechs can continually adjust to market realities and deliver products that can satisfy the ever-growing needs of customers.” Participants at the Hackathon will demonstrate the prototypes of their creations before a panel of judges on the final day of the event. The judges will then select the winners and runners up. The winners could go home with N5 million in gift items.