Farmcrowdy, described as Nigeria’s first and leading digital agriculture platform has won the Digital Business of the Year award in Africa for 2018. The award was announced over the weekend at the annual Global African Business Awards (GABA) ceremony which was held in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Launched in 2017, GABA, the world’s premier annual business award was created to celebrate, honour and generate public recognition of the achievements and positive contributions of organizations and working professionals in the continent of Africa. Other nominees of the Digital Business of the Year award included e-commerce platforms – Konga, Jumia, Zando, Dressmeoutlet, Mall for Africa and Dealdey; WeFarm, which has described as the world’s largest farmer-to-farmer digital network; Interswitch payment gateway; and Delvv.io, South Africa’s branding and refinement partners. Onyeka Akumah, Founder and CEO of Farmcrowdy, speaking on the award in a press statement, said “we are honoured to have our hard work aimed at impacting on the lives of rural farmers recognised. We are delighted about the great opportunities ahead of us as we continually strive to remain at the forefront of technological innovation in Agriculture across Nigeria and eventually the continent of Africa.” With a team of 35, Farmcrowdy says it has, in the last 20 months, empowered over 7,000 direct and indirect rural farmers and given thousands of farm sponsors a platform to participate in Agriculture, from their computers or mobile phones in order to make profit at harvest. This impact has seen the platform plant Maize, Rice and Cassava on over 8,000 Acres of farmland in less than 2 years and raised close to 600,000 chickens to boost food production in the country. The company also says it has raised $1.4 million in seed funding from local and international investors including Cox Enterprises, Social Capital, Techstars Ventures and most recently, won a grant from the GSMA Ecosystem Accelerator Innovator Fund. So far, the funds have given the leading startup the potency to scale its operations to 10 states in Nigeria with plans for more expansion across more states and regions.