Best Mbanaso was a two-time commissioner in Imo State in the Rochas Okorocha administration. He recently fell out with the governor over his advice against the planned succession in the state, which according to him negates the principle of justice and equity. In this interview with ZEBULON AGOMUO in Owerri, Mbanaso insisted that the Owerri zone should be allowed to govern the state in the principle of fairness. Excerpts: My name is Ichie Best Mbanaso. I was a one-time Mayor of Orlu, especially between 2000 and 2011; and 2012. Mayor of Orlu means the man incharge of affairs in the 12 zones.  After one year, I was elevated to the position of honourable commissioner for commerce and industry under this same Rescue Mission administration of Governor Rochas Okorocha; then by 2013 I was also appointed as the first deputy chief of staff, operations; in charge of Government House. I was later moved to the Ministry of Works and Transport as the honourable commissioner.  At the end of that tenure I was sent back to Orlu to complete the job I started in Orlu as the Mayor of Orlu. I went back there in 2015 to 2017. Then when the governor dissolved the exco; I was then appointed as the special adviser to the governor on Market Development until about four months ago, when the governor terminated my appointment. The reason was that I said to him, your son-in-law cannot be governor after you. He cannot succeed you as the governor of Imo State.This is because I believe in equity; justice and fair play; because Orlu has ruled this state for 16 years; by the end of May 29th when this government would wrap up; Orlu would have completed 16 years. Okigwe has also done 8 years. Four years during the time of Sam Mbakwe and four years during the administration of Ikedi Ohakim.  Then Owerri zone; I can say that they have not even ruled under a democratic setting. Evan Enwerem ruled the military which was only for a period of 18 months (one year and six months). So, for me, for the sake of equity and justice, Owerri zone should have it this time around; since 1998 till date Owerri is the state capital; and they have not produced the governor of Imo State. So, for me I said, no; I stand for an Owerri man to be the governor of Imo State.  I met the governor first, second and third times and said to him, Sir, you are my ‘oga’; but I am opposing the idea of your son-in-law to be the governor of Imo State at this time. He said I should resign my appointment; but I said, no; you are the one that hired me and you have sworn me into different appointments six times within the seven years; so, you have the right to terminate my appointment.  In 2013, I was adjudged the best commissioner; best appointee; best starter and best team player- four awards, I got them. I went home with them. It is not that I am arrogant about it; no; because the Bible says, it is not of him that willeth or of him that runneth, but of God that showeth mercy. So, I don’t take credit for what God has done; because I will never share the glory with Him at all. But the advice I gave my brother, the governor, is a very good advice.  Today, he has seen the effect. He has a committed deputy governor, Eze Madumere. Madumere was chief of staff when I was deputy chief of staff, operations. He is a very good team player. He is an administrator; a stabiliser; a man that can take this state to another level. I said to him, ‘why not give this thing to your deputy who has served you for 25 years and in the course of this relationship with Okorocha the man has lost a lot”.  I thank God that today he has seen those pieces of advice. The deputy is doing very, very well politically; if we should go to the polls today; he would be the next governor of this state.  Well, he is the one to say whether he has lost out or not; but I know as at today he is not in charge of the APC structure in Imo State; Congresses have come and gone but he is still giving hope that he is in charge. It is not true. As at now, I can say that the governor does not even know the ward chairman of his own ward. He does not even know who the party’s chairman in his local government is; which is not supposed to be so. But the good thing is that the party has returned back to its owners. You know, party is for the people and it is supreme. So, what is happening in Imo State today is good for our democracy. It is also a lesson to the in-coming governors that you don’t joke with the people- the masses that voted you into power. Well APGA is a party of its own. APGA is like a sectional party; if you are talking about Igbo president by 2023, all Igbo must vote Buhari back in 2019, so that by 2023, we will negotiate with the North to help us for an Igbo man to be the next president of this country. So, there’s no way you can pursue that agenda with APGA. So, it is only in APC that we have such hope; the President has done very well; corruption has reduced to the barest minimum in this country. The PDP messed a lot of things up and we cannot just judge the APC government because of its performance in three years. Let’s give the President more four years; I know before the end of that tenure, Buhari would stabilise the economy of this country. Sure, I am saying their mind. I want to assure and reassure you that by the grace of God in the next election, Imo State will give Buhari nothing less than one million votes. I will mobilise my people to massively vote for Buhari because he has done very, very well. We are negotiating with them; that by 2019 Imo State will produce next Senate President in the person of Senator Hope Uzodinma who we are supporting to go back to the Senate. . This interview was conducted before the recent national congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC).