 The presiding judge, Justice  Abubakar Tijjani Badamasi  ruled that, the crowning  of Igwe Ibekwe ,as the traditional leader of Ndi-igbo,  followed and complied with the provisions of the constitution of Igbo Community Association, ICA Kano.  According to the originating summons, Nze Ignatus N. Nwosu and chief Leonard Nwosu   had approached the court,  requesting the court to nullify the emergence of igwe Boniface Ibekwe as Eze-Ndi Igbo in Kano.  The plaintiff told the court that, Igwe Boniface failed to fulfill the spelt out constitutional requirements and therefore  could not assume the throne. he then pray the court for a perpetual restraining order,  compelling  igwe Boniface  to desist from parading himself as Eze Ndi-Igbo of Kano.  He further told the court  that, Igwe Ibekwe allegedly indulged in the act of unwarranted provocative annoyance against him.  Nze Ignatus then requested the court to order, Igwe Boniface to compensate him, in the sum of N3 million for the damages allegedly inflicted on him,  and legal fees incurred, in prosecuting the matter.  The court  yesterday dismissed all the issues raised against the Igbo leader, noting that, the plaintiff failed to prove his case.  According to the court, the constitution that regulates the activities of Igbo Community Association, ICA Kano does provide for the recognition of the post of Onye –Ndu, adding that the nomenclature  for Igbo traditional ruler that is stipulated in the constitution is that of Eze Ndi-Igbo, “ICA constitution provided for  only Eze Ndi-Igbo and the constitution has not been amended to accommodate a new nomenclature.  The court gave verdict in favor of Igwe Boniface Ibekwe, who   in his defence had dismissed all the issues raised against him before the court.He informed the court that, his coronation as Eze –Ndi Igbo in Kano was conducted in compliance with laid out norms, tradition and constitutional provisions laid down by Ndi –igbo in Kano.  The court refrained from granting cost to either of the parties, it ordered the parties to shoulder the burden of their cost. Our correspondent reports that  pedestrian and vehicular movements were disrupted in parts of the ancient city predominantly inhabited by Kano residents of Igbo descent. Sympathizers throng streets of Sabon-Gari and Kofa Ruwa market to wave and catch a glimpse   at Igwe Boniface, who rode through the streets in a long convoy.