The Nigerian Army has said that 20 suspected bandits were arrested on their way to Abuja. The Army said nineteen locally-made guns were recovered from the bandits, who claimed to be hunters. Director of Army Public Relations (DAPR), Brig-Gen. Texas Chukwu, who made the disclosure in a statement, said the suspects, said the suspects claimed to be hunters travelling to Abuja, for a meeting. He, however, noted that upon interrogation, a total of nineteen guns were found in their possession. According to Chukwu, the suspected bandits were arrested along the Nasarawa – Keffi road, as they made their way from Adamawa State. “The Nigerian Army has intercepted a Nissan bus with 20 occupants along Nasarawa – Abuja road while conducting a routine check. “The occupants on interrogation, claimed they were hunters from Adamawa on transit to Abuja for National Hunters Association scheduled to take place today, Saturday 28 July 2018”, Chukwu said. He noted that those arrested will be handed over to appropriate authorities, once investigation was concluded. Other items recovered, according to the Army, were one locally-made knife, three cutlasses, one bow and 38 Arrows, as well as assorted charms. In the meantime, the Army has said that attempts by suspected Boko Haram elements to attack Dikwa in Borno State, were repelled by soldiers. The Army further disclosed that some of the insurgents fled with gunshot wounds inflicted on them by the fighting troops. It said: ‘Troops of 22 Brigade deployed in operation Lafiya Dole on Friday 27 July 2018 successfully repelled Boko Haram terrorists attack on Dikwa, Borno State. “The terrorists attempted to infiltrate into Dikwa through the Eastern flank of the town but were intercepted by the troops on duty. “Some of the Boko Haram terrorists escape with gun shot wounds following a superior fire power of the troops during the encounter. “Effort is being intensified by the troops to get other fleeing members of terrorists group…”  Stella Enenche, Abuja 