Following the success of the just concluded 2018 FIFA World Cup, Russia is already enjoying the windfall of positive international PR and a surge in national pride after staging a widely praised tournament and seeing its team defy rock-bottom expectations. The event also gave its economy a welcome shot in the arm, the country’s top bank said. Visiting football fans spent $1.5 billion during the one-month tournament, according to state-owned lender Sberbank according to a report in FT. Moscow had hoped to use the event to defy western nations that have sought to diplomatically isolate Russia following its 2014 annexation of Crimea and its alleged meddling in the 2016 US election. The country welcomed foreign fans with visa-free travel and spruced-up host cities, and a notable relaxation of heavy-handed policing encouraged street parties and a carnival atmosphere, fuelling celebrations that saw bars run out of beer and cafes open all night. Sberbank said in a research report that its network alone had serviced 899,000 foreign bank cards from 194 countries during the month-long tournament, with one Chinese bank card used to make purchases in 11 different cities. Fast-food outlets and restaurants saw spending of Rbs6.2billion ($98million), Sberbank said, with hotels accounting for Rbs5billion — though the real figure was likely to be far higher given that accommodation was also bought in advance or through foreign travel agents. Russia’s government has said that about 3m people visited the country for the tournament, suggesting an average spend of $500 per person. Most fans visited only one location — Sberbank said that 75 per cent of foreign cards were used in a single city. Spending often related to teams’ performances, the bank said, with fans splurging the most — 36.5 per cent of the total — during the second week of the group stage, when all teams were still involved. Spending often peaked after crucial victories or when countries were sent out, as fans prepared to head home. “Judging by their expenses, people from Middle Eastern and African countries left Russia rather early,” the bank said. No African or Middle Eastern nation made it through to the knockout stage. “The map of expenses also shows the change of fan activity during days when teams had big wins and after they were knocked out. Croatians, for example, spent actively on 18 June when their team scored its first win and 9 July as it prepared for the semi-final,” it added. Nikolskaya Street in Moscow, a pedestrian avenue close to Red Square, where after-match parties were often centred, was a big drain on visitors’ wallets, Sberbank said. The average bill on the street, which is packed with bars, restaurants and tourist shops, was Rbs8,800, with Rbs12.5million spent on June 18 alone. Overall, spending on the street was up 3.5 times from normal levels. The overall contribution of the 2018 FIFA World Cup into domestic GDP totaled more than 850 billion rubles ($13.5 billion), Executive Director of the Association of Tour Operators of Russia Maya Lomidze said on Wednesday at a press conference in TASS. “The total contribution into GDP was about 1%, 850 billion rubles ($13.5 billion). According to the estimate of the Russian Steering Committee, this amount actually covers costs. I would like to remind that we had the most expensive World Cup. A great deal of infrastructural changes was made in cities and the country essentially assumed almost all costs for travels of fans,” Lomidze noted. According to preliminary data of the Russian Tourism Authority, 2.9 million foreign fans visited Russia during the 2018 World Cup. 