In October 2017 when BusinessDay published a story that 81 out of President Muhammadu Buhari’s 100 political appointees were northerners, the Presidency dismissed the publication as having ‘ulterior motives’.  But for the first time since the inauguration of the Eighth Senate on June 9, 2015, the issue of lopsided appointments by President Muhammadu Buhari occupied front burner, as its Committee on Federal Character and Inter-Governmental Affairs was mandated to investigate the matter.  The moment President Buhari gave his infamous “97%/5%” speech while addressing the United States Institute of Peace (USIP) in July 2015, I knew where the President’s body language was tilting towards.  But it took the senators three years after his controversial Washington statement for lawmakers to probe the matter.  Shortly after Senate President Senator Abubakar Bukola Saraki read a letter from President Muhammadu Buhari seeking approval for the appointment of nominees for the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu had raised concerns at last Thursday plenary that the President’s appointments were skewed in favour a section of the country.  This, he stressed, breached Section 14 (3) of the 1999 Constitution which provides that: “The composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few State or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that Government or in any of its agencies”.  Although the committee was mandated to submit its report by Tuesday this week, curiously the absence of the chairman, Tijani Kaura (APC, Zamfara State) and his vice are strong signals that Saraki merely made a political statement to calm frayed nerves.  A critical analysis of President Buhari’s confirmation letter read on the floor of the Senate between Wednesday, July 18 and Thursday July 19, revealed that the appointments are skewed in favour of a section of a country, as it revealed that out of 31 political appointments, the South East and South South geopolitical zone received three nominations each as against eighteen to the North and seven to the South West.  This is despite the fact that the headship of virtually all the security agencies are headed by northerners.  The President’s action is like a father who tells some of his children in the presence of the rest of his children that he loves them more than the others. When that happens, the disaffection that it will cause may lead to the breakup of that home.  The Presidency and the President’s supporters may rationalise Buhari’s action but the truth is that he has only succeeded in setting a bad president. Many commentators have expressed concern that never in the history of Nigeria had her citizens been so divided along ethnic, religious lines. And this is mainly attributed to the unfairness that the President has displayed in office in the last three years.  I agree with the submission of Azuka Onwuka that: “The danger in this is that in future, a Southern President may decide to do something worse than what Buhari is currently doing. If any part complains, they will be given ample evidence of how it was done in the past by Buhari and many people rationalised it. In addition, a diverse country like Nigeria needs the President to take actions and make statements that show that he treats all parts of the country equally”.  It would later turn out that the President’s plagiarised inauguration speech that he belonged to everybody and nobody was nothing but a scam.  As senators proceed on annual recess this week, it is still uncertain if lawmakers will approve the N228.8 billion 2019 elections budget request by Buhari. With his supplementary and/or virement request asking lawmakers to transfer the funds appropriated for the 6,403 inserted projects worth N578 billion to cover for the sum of the elections, the President has only succeeded in laying an ambush for them. He adopted the “command and control” approach rather than engage the National Assembly leadership.  With only three legislative days left to sit before they embark on long recess, I do not see the possibility of lawmakers approving the request now. This is because in line with parliamentary practice, such Executive Communication will be slated on the Order Paper after which it will be referred to the relevant committee, which will then invite the agencies concerned and submit its report to plenary for adoption.  I won’t be surprised if lawmakers throw a joker by removing some projects from the budgetary allocations to the two other arms: Executive and Judiciary and present same as 2019 elections budget.