Against earlier forecast by two different polls, the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Kayode Fayemi won the keenly contested Ekiti governorship election.  Fayemi won the Ekiti governorship election with 197,459 votes followed by his closest rival, Olusola  Eleka of the People’s Democratic Party who got 178,121 votes. Ahead of the election, Eleka was leading by a wide margin two different surveys by NOI polls. The turnaround on election day has surprised many close observers of the Nigerian electoral space.  But money looks to have played a key role in the outcome of the final results. Both the PDP and the APC were involved in the direct procurement of votes on the election day. It is rumoured that Ekiti state civil servants got N3,000 credited to their accounts a day before the election. BusinessDay has not confirm this allegation. Also on election day, agents of the APC were seen handing over N5,000 for votes cast for the party.  However, sources say that it was not just money. Fayemi’s decision to pick 74 year old  Adebisi Egbeyemi as his running mate in the election is also said to have boosted his chances in the election while Fayose’s relationship with certain traditional rulers in Ekiti is also said to have negatively impacted on PDP’s chances in the election. There was also a strong coalition of local forces in Ekiti state that touted the PDP’s chances in the election.  Meanwhile, the APC congratulated its candidate over his victory in the keenly contested election which now means that all the South West states are now controlled by the ruling APC.  APC noted that Fayemi ran an effective and positive campaign focused on his agenda of rebuilding the economy of the state and returning its lost values of integrity, prudence and decency.  Bolaji Abdullahi, APC National Publicity Secretary in a congratulatory message to Fayemi said, “the Party commends the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), security agencies, local and international observers, as well as other stakeholders, for their admirable role in making the Ekiti gubernatorial election one in which the people’s will has prevailed”.
APC thanked, “the Ekiti electorate for voting en masse for our Party’s candidate.  “This is a demonstration of their trust and confidence in  Kayode Fayemi’s ability to deliver on his campaign promises and a rejection of the crude and pedestrian politics of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP”.  “We assure the people of Ekiti, and indeed all Nigerians, that our Party is best placed to move the country forward and resolve the seemingly intractable problems that have held us back”, the APC Spokesman stated.  But the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has rejected Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State, insisting that the poll was rigged in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Kayode Fayemi.  The party insisted that its standard bearer at the poll and Deputy Governor of the state, Kolapo Olusola Eleka, won the exercise, stressing that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) altered the results at the collation centers.  In a press conference on Sunday, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was already collating all the ‘infractions’ in the election.  “Painfully, the people of Ekiti state were pillaged, openly brutalized, confronted with the worst form of cruelty and intimidation from security agencies, and their mandate, which they freely gave to the PDP, was snatched at ‘gun point’ by enemies of democracy, who are parading themselves as icons of anti-corruption.”  “Nigerians are witnesses to all manipulations by the APC, aided by security agencies and compromised INEC officials, to rig the election, particularly, the audacious alteration and substitution of election results in favour of the APC at the collation centers amidst the brutalization of our agents.”  “The PDP has the details of all the polling units where we won, mostly with very wide margin ahead of the APC, only for the security agencies to chase away our agents, then aid the alteration and swapping of such results with those smuggled in by the APC at the collation centers.”  “We have the detail of the discrepancies between the authentic results from the polling units and the false figures eventually announced by INEC.”  “It is also instructive to state that all the issues we raised ahead of the election, including the conspiracy between the APC, some compromised INEC officials and security agencies; the importation of thugs from other states by the APC; the use of brute force against our members, the falsification and alteration of results in favour of the APC, all manifested in the election.”  “We know how APC conspired with INEC to bring in card reader machines belonging to Kogi, Lagos, Ondo, Oyo, Ogun states into Ekiti state to enable APC members from these states to vote in Ekiti election with ease”.
He alleged that APC governors and federal ministers diverted huge sums of money to bribe top officials of the electoral body.  The party spokesperson said with what happened in the state, democracy cannot survive in Nigeria under President Muhammadu Buhari and the current INEC leadership.  He also criticised the APC-led Federal Government for relying ‘heavily on brute force’ to deliver the election for Fayose.  “This bare-faced subversion of the will of the people is a clear recipe for crisis and we invite Nigerians and the international community to hold President Buhari, the APC, the INEC Chairman and heads of security agencies in Nigeria responsible should there be any breakdown of law and order in Ekiti state as a result of this election.  “This robbery of the franchise of Ekiti people is a horrible rape of our democracy and it is most uncharitable that it could happen under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari as well as the participation of the APC, who hugely benefitted from the credible electoral process midwifed by the PDP in 2015,” he said.  Meanwhile, President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, has congratulated the Governor-elect of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, on his victory in the just-concluded gubernatorial election in Ekiti State.  Saraki, in a statement signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, stated that the  Governor-elect of Ekiti State should use his second-coming to continue the people-centered policies and programmes of his first term, while urging him to also work to grow the State’s economy in order to leave behind a sustainable legacy.  He said the victory was a sign that the people of Ekiti State still have confidence in the former minister’s ability to provide good governance and render efficient service to the state and its people. He also advised the Governor-elect to maintain his focus on how to bring more development to the State and improve the standard of living of the people.  The Senate President also urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the law enforcement and security agencies, the government and entire electorate to learn some lessons from the Ekiti State gubernatorial election, which has served as a fore-runner to the 2019 General Elections and ensure that all areas of complaints and inadequacies are corrected before a similar election in Osun State and the 2019 general elections.  “To ensure that the Nigeria people have continued trust and faith in our electoral system, we must continue to work to improve our electoral policies and practices. We must look into the issues that have been identified in this last election to ensure that they are not repeated in the upcoming Osun Gubernatorial election, and during the 2019 elections. Definitely, the 2019 elections must be better in all ramifications than the 2015 polls”, he said.  Saraki prayed that God will bless and guide the Governor-elect as he prepares to assume Office, and called for a smooth transition between the outgoing government and the incoming one.