How far will the #NotTooYoungToRun# law help the Nigerian youth in taking active part in 2019 general election?  This is the question on the lips of many analysts. The bill was signed into law in Abuja recently by President Muhammadu Buhari amid fanfare. Over the years, the youth have remained indifference to politics largely because the game has always been dominated by the geriatric in the country. Those who held the reins of power 30, 40 years ago are still occupying the power stool. In most cases, the electorate’s votes do not count as political offices are shared by the cabal. The youth have always been used as cannon fodder. They are those often being recruited as political thugs, who fight for politicians and engage in ballot snatching and other malpractices. It is not likely that the trend will change soon, with the escalating youth unemployment rate put at 18.8 percent. With 2019 approaching, many youths may be waiting in the wings to be hired for such activities. Pundits believe that the #NotTooYoungToRun# law is just to pave the way for the children of the established political actors to step into the shoes of their parents. “In this part of the world, you do not talk about politics without mentioning money; too much of it. The ruling class has always applied the principle of starving the masses to incapacitate them and make them subservient,” a critic said. So, the question is, would the law change anything? Oluwole Uzzi, an official of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), noted that the rate of youth apathy to politics was on the increase. “Many youths believe that they do not have much of a chance; they think finance is a challenge, and there are better things to do; so, it does not matter whether they participate or not,” Uzzi said. So, despite the existence of the law which is expected to encourage youth participation in the 2019 general election, it is not clear if the signing into law of the bill may have triggered the level of genuine interest expected from that segment of the society. Donald Duke, a former governor of Cross River State and presidential aspirant, expressed pessimism recently. Duke, who exclusively spoke with BusinessDay editors, noted that there was huge youth disenchantment in the polity, which he said may discourage participation in the forth coming election. “Most of these folks that shout about next election do not even have voters’ cards. I have addressed various youth fora where I asked ‘how many people here have voters’ cards?’ On the average it is 20 to 25 percent that put up their hands. In some places, it was pathetic, because some people were giving all manner of excuses. The truth is that they don’t believe that their votes will count. But ask them how many of them have SIM cards, some of them would put their hands and legs up. So, you have got to get them to appreciate that it matters,” he said. Explaining the mobilisation attempt to get the youth galvanised which was the main purpose for the formation of the Coalition for Nigeria Movement, Duke said it was actually to encourage youth participation. On whether the votes would count in 2019, the former governor said:  “It depends on participation. Election malpractices exist where there is a vacuum. If you go to a polling booth that has 500 names and only 20 showed up; there are 480 names to play with there. They will thumb-print everything. You can choose to go to court if you have the resources to go and fight; because your opponent would be declared winner.