There are strong indications that some incumbent All Progressive Congress (APC) Governors will soon defect to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Alliance for Democratic Congress (ADC). Speculations making rounds is pointed  at  the Governors of Kwara, Benue, Sokoto, and few others.  Barely two hours after some  federal lawmakers announced their defection to PDP, some members of the Kano State House of Assembly loyal to former Governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso also reportedly defected to PDP, BusinessDay gathered.
At the House of Representatives, 32 lawmakers loyal to most of these Governors had during Tuesday plenary formally defected to PDP and ADC.  Speaking on behalf of the defecting members, Rasak Atunwa (Kwara) explained that the massive defection from APC to PDP and some to ADC was as a result of breach of trust and failed promises.  He noted that the 37 members who crossed to the other parties was the first batch of those who have signified interest in defecting to PDP and other parties.  He said: “therefore you should expect more in the next few days from the House of Representatives.”  Atunwa noted that the ruling party has failed in its campaign promises to lift Nigerians from the doldrums,  BUT rather has resolved to derail the country and breach the rule of law.  He lamented that the Buhari-led administration has embarked on  victimization and criminalization of those who they consider as opponents and with divergent views, adding that such move by APC will lead to self-destruction.  According to him, the APC leadership which has failed to ensure cohesion among various political parties form merger party called APC, “were castigated as inconsequential.”  On his party, Aliyu Madaki (Kano) noted that Buhari’s administration has failed to provide the needed leadership in the provision of security for Nigerian citizens.  He noted that the prevailing security situation was worse than former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, adding that the leadership of PDP which lost power at the last general election in 2015, has learnt its lessons and ready to provide the people.  He alleged that the use of brutality by the present administration was unbearable, stressing that the defecting lawmakers have resolved to serve the people “whether you kill all of us or whether you arrest all of us.”  He maintained that “this government has completely derailed,” adding that “anyone interested in the well being of Nigeria will not remain in APC.”  Barely 15 minutes after Speaker Yakubu Dogara announced the defection of the 37 members to PDP and ADC, Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader argued that the defecting lawmakers are seeking for tickets, adding that Section 68 of the 1999 constitution (as amended) has addressed the issue of defection.  While noting that the issue of defection is a recurring decimal in the Nigerian polity every four years, Gbajabiamila posited that such phenomenon was unhealthy in a political environment with strong political ideology.  He also extend hands of fellowship to the all the defecting lawmakers to return to the party whenever they retrace their steps, just as he argued that the verdict of Supreme Court in the case of PDP vs Abegunde did not apply to the rAPC.  On the legality of the defection, the Lagos lawmaker stressed that the Supreme Court ruling in the case of Rotimi Amaechi affirmed that it is not the person that is elected but the party.  Gbajabiamila explained that PDP has not been able to muscle the required 60 members to become the majority party in the House.  He however appealed to the leadership of APC to continue the implementation of various policies and programmes that will impact positively on the lives of Nigerians across the country.  “But haven said that we also want to declare a way for every members of the party and including the speaker and his deputy and the leadership of the house in the side of the APC who remained and have piloted the affairs of this House, Mr. Speaker, the Deputy Speaker, the Chief Whip who is at my right hand side, we would continue to do what we are required to do on floor of the House,” Gbajabiamila said.
Some of the lawmakers who decamped to PDP are Ahmed Chachangi (Kaduna), Rasak Atunwa (Kwara), Aliyu Madaki (Kano), Hassan Saleh (Benue), Mark Gbillah (Benue), Nasir Garo (Kano), Hassan Omale (Benue), Zakari Mohammed (Kwara), Funke Adedoyin (Kwara) and Olaniyonu Tope (Kwara), Abdusamad Dasuki (Sokoto), Ali Pategi (Kwara), Shehu Usman (Kano), Dickson Takhir (Benue), Bode Ayorinde (Ondo), among others.  Meanwhile four other APC lawmakers namely: Taiwo Akintola, Olufemi Samson, Adepoju Sunday and Adeola Olasupo also defected to ADC.  According to them, the decision to defect was in line with section 68(g) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended).  They argued that the crisis rocking the ruling party at all levels prompted their decision to migrate to another political party. 