Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the Federal Government will grant approval for the full rehabilitation of collapsed sections of Oshodi-Mile2-Apapa expressway within the next two weeks, as part of urgent measures to decongest Lagos.
Osinbajo gave the promise at a stakeholders’ meeting convened at the NNS Beecroft in Apapa, Thursday, to find an enduring solution to the gridlock and sundry other challenges within Apapa and its environs arising from absence of infrastructure, years of neglect, and perhaps more troubling, the continued occupation of the roads and bridges leading in and out of Apapa by thousands of petroleum tankers, containerised trucks and other articulated vehicles.
The VP’s assurance comes as Akinwunmi Ambode, the Lagos State says whatever responsibility assigned to Lagos, in the quest to resolve the crisis in Apapa will be adequately handled by the state government, just as he restated the need to decentralise port operations in the country so that shipping activities are not concentrated in Lagos alone.
Ambode said the gridlock was taking a toll on the economy of Lagos, and indeed the country, and therefore requires collaborative efforts.
This is as Rotimi Amaechi, minister of transportation says he will be making a case for the review of the concession agreement between the Federal Government and the port concessionaires due to the alleged failure of the terminal operators to abide by the spirit of the agreement. Amaechi did not specify the areas of violation of the agreement by the concessionaires, but said he would be making his recommendation to this effect to the Federal Executive Council (FEC).
Meanwhile, Hadiza Bala Usman, managing director of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) has accused shipping companies of continued violation of operational guidelines requiring them to have holding bays for empty containers as part of the operations, insisting this can no longer be tolerated.
The visit yesterday was the second within one week by Vice President Osinbajo having visited last Friday, during which he handed down a 72-hour ultimatum to the truck drivers to vacate the roads. This was not heeded, as the trucks are still on the roads. However, driving into Apapa via Western Avenue-Ijora was a pleasantly experience yesterday, as security personnel cleared the access road ostensibly to allow the vice president free entry and exit.
Osinbajo, who noted that the Federal Government has no excuse not to resolve the Apapa traffic debacle, and bring relief to residents and businesses which are currently suffocating, said that the federal authorities were working to secure another concessionaire that will rehabilitate the narrow gauge rail track inward the ports to facilitate the evacuation of goods including petroleum products as against road haulage. “The Oshodi-Mile2-Apapa expressway is a very important road. But it has been delayed. I am working hard personally to have it fast-tracked. And I like to assure it wouldn’t take us more than two weeks to get that approval from the Federal Executive Council. Efforts will also be intensified to clear the blockade. “We had an arrangement with General Electric (GE) which supposed to rehabilitate the narrow gauge rail to the port as part of the concession but didn’t work. We are now talking to get the second concessionaire to handle this,” Osinbajo said. Stakeholders including residents of Apapa, truck owners, representatives of shipping companies and ports operators who spoke at the meeting, all expressed readiness to work with the government in finding a solution to the crisis, and suggested that the taskforce deployed on the road be made permanent to assist in traffic management.  JOSHUA BASSEY 