Management of FBNInsurance Group said the announcement last week by the insurance regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) of a new risk based capital requirement for insurance companies in Nigeria, is the best thing to have happened to the market at this time. The company said the Tier-Based risks capital will increase the financial capacity of insurance companies to enable them retain more risks in Nigeria, enjoy better returns on earnings, enhanced returns to shareholders, as well as ability to meet obligations. And most importantly, address the challenge of operating in an environment with so many fringe players, whose collective activities have brought a lot of shame to the industry. Val Ojumah, managing director/CEO, FBNInsurance who made the remark during a press briefing at the Company’s head office in Lagos commended NAICOM for taking the bold step to reposition the insurance industry. He said the Commission has not increased capital for anybody, but what it has done was to say that companies must align their capital with the risk they carry. So, it is now left for every company to choose where they want to play. Ojumah said this new development aligns with the vision and expectation of FBNInsurance, saying “We are bringing to you an insurance group that will take its rightful position as Tier1 insurance company in Niger”. As a member of FBN Holdings and Sanlam, we have the financial muscle and pedigree to belong to the Trier1 group, so those big ticket risks should come to where they belong, Ojumah stated. “We are in 46 locations now, and within the next 16 months we will add 20 new locations” Ojumah further stated that in the next one year, you will see new things happening in the insurance industry; you will see insurance stocks rise because insurance companies will be in position to pay dividend to their shareholders. Bode Opadokun, managing director, FBN General Insurance said the new RBC will bring to the market strong and secured insurance companies to compliment the rebranding efforts going on in the industry. “Consumers, particularly the corporate clients will now have choice where to place their risks; price undercutting will disappear; companies will have capacity to employ and retain qualified manpower, and there will resources for training and development, he said. FBN also believe that this development will increase consumer confidence, improved consciousness of where to place risks, going forward. Under the risk based capital structure, life insurance firms need a capital level of N6 billion for Tier 1; N3 billion for Tier 2 and N2 billion for Tier 3: For non-life business, the requirement is N9 billion for Tier 1; N4.5 billion for Tier 2 and N3 billion for Tier 3. While for composite companies (combination of life and general business), the new capital requirement is N15 billion for Tier 1; N7.5 billion for Tier 2 and N5 billion for Tier 3.  Modestus Anaesoronye 