With only a few weeks to the collection of expression of interest forms for the 2019 general elections, there are indications that Bayelsa State governor, Henry Seriake Dickson could be locked in battle with Foster Ogola, representing Bayelsa West Senatorial District in the Senate, over the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket.  Four years ago when Governor Dickson supported Ogola in his victorious bid to represent the senatorial district at the Upper House of the National Assembly, some keen political observers noted that the governor had an eye on the seat after his two terms as the number one citizen of the state.  However, his media aides promptly dismissed the news as unfounded and said the governor would retire to his hometown to play the role of a political father in the state, but surreptitious moves are afoot to actualise the ambition of the governor by embarking on an elaborate plan filled with lots of intrigue.  It is unclear whether Ogola, who was the chairman of the Bayelsa State Scholarship Board before contesting the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary ticket against the incumbent Minister of State for Education, Heineken Lokpobiri and went on to defeat the All Progressive Congress (APC) candidate, Eddi Julius in the election, would stand against the governor.  BD Sunday learnt that there was an arrangement between Ogola and Dickson that the former would step down for him after the expiration of his governorship, but that agreement or whatever it was, appears to have failed as the senator is said to be bent on continuing beyond 2019.  Impeccable sources said it was after the disagreement between both men that the subtle moves to undermine Ogola through sponsored publications about alleged certificate forgery started and that the romance has effectively been soured, as the senator has come to understand and enjoy power.  The source said the smear campaign was aimed at discrediting Ogola to pave way for disgracing him out of office. However, one pertinent issue is that while a growing number of the constituents believe that the senator has failed them in his representation, they are also not comfortable with Dickson, as they see his policies and programmes as hurtful to them.  The plot, however, could prove to be one of the thrillers of the forthcoming elections in the state, as it includes other persons that the governor would allegedly use to effectively remove Ogola, install one of his own, who would be given another role and thereby creating a vacuum that Dickson would eventually fill in a bye election.  One of the sources said Dickson is determined to sponsor his Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo to contest the primary election for the senatorial seat against Ogola and when victorious, later install him as deputy governor, thereby creating a vacuum that he would fill in a bye election.  However, other names have been mentioned as potential replacements for Ogola in the Bayelsa West Senatorial District. These include that of the Deputy Chief of Staff, Government House, Ebizi Ndiomu-Brown.  But, that is as far as it goes for now, due to the emerging fact that the governor had earlier promised to make the member representing Sagbama/Ekeremor Federal Constituency, Fred Agbedi deputy governor; and the new arrangement is said to be irking the lawmaker.  Another worrying factor in the plot is that there is no certainty that Dickson would be able to install his own as governor and deputy governor, especially as he is a second term governor and some of such attempts in the past in some states had not gone down well.  Such examples are in Rivers State where Peter Odili wanted to install Rotimi Amaechi, but failed and Lagos State where Babatunde Fashola also failed to install his own, though there were those who were successful like in Delta State where James Ibori left for Emmanuel Uduaghan and Akwa Ibom State where Godswill Akpabio was succeeded by Emmanuel Udom.  One other factor is the fact that despite working assiduously to reposition the state, Dickson is still perceived as unpopular among some sectors in the state, particularly civil servants and traders who see him as the cause of the economic hardship being experienced in the state.  To them, the ongoing public sector reforms is a witch-hunt which reduced the earning power of most civil servants and affected commercial activities, in spite of the successful town hall meetings organised by the state Ministry of Information and Orientation to garner support for the reforms.  Aside that, one of the support blocks for the governor may have been undermined by the defection of Government Ekpumokpolo aka Tompolo, to the APC as it could affect the balance of power among repentant militants in the creeks of the state from where the bulk of votes are expected to come.  Already, the news of Tompolo’s defection is being felt in the state, as one ex-warlord and former caretaker chairman of Southern Ijaw Local Government Council, appointed by Dickson was also in line to defect to the APC over alleged contractual disagreements with the governor.  Should the trend continue, it is believed that it could mortgage the votes in Southern Ijaw Local Government Area which were critical to the governor’s victory in 2016 and could prove pivotal in the 2019 governorship election; the cancellation of the election in that area saw him coast to victory and defeat former governor, Timipre Sylva by a landslide.  It would be recalled that if the result of the election in Southern Ijaw had been upheld, Sylva would have won by a landslide, so, the balance of power in the creeks and who holds the aces is a strong determinant of who gets the nearly 200,000 votes from the local government area.  One other significant factor is Governor Dickson’s attempt to pick his successor from Southern Ijaw Local Government Area, a step that could anger the people of Yenagoa and Kolokuma/Opokuma local government areas as it is against the spirit of zoning which has been entrenched in the state.  Southern Ijaw, Yenagoa and Kolokuma/Opokuma local government areas make up Bayelsa Central Senatorial District which produced late Diepreye Alamieyeseigha as governor; after him, Bayelsa East Senatorial District produced former President Goodluck Jonathan and Timipre Sylva while Bayelsa West Senatorial District produced incumbent Dickson.  According to the zoning arrangement, it is the turn of either Yenagoa or Kolokuma/Opokuma local government areas to produce the next governor, and already, politicians in the area are gearing up for the elections.  Perhaps, the greatest challenge, according to the source, is a subtle rejection of Ewhrudjakpo as potential senator or deputy governor on the grounds that other stakeholders in the senatorial district do not see him as a true Bayelsan despite the fact that he is from Ofoni in Sagbama Local Government Area.  This, however, looks far-fetched as Ofoni community whose local language is Urhobo is part of Tarakiri clan and the people are in actual fact descendants of Tarakiri just like the other Ijaw speaking people and communities that make up Tarakiri clan.  To some political observers, the impasse in the PDP could gift the seat to the opposition APC should they field a stronger and more acceptable candidate for the election to the Senate and going by the recent political developments in the country.  But, BD Sunday further gathered that Governor Dickson is now willing to allow the Jonathan camp to produce the governor so that he can produce the deputy governor, which will pave the way for him to effect his plans to get into the Senate.  When BD Sunday contacted Francis Ottah-Agbo, Chief Press Secretary to Governor Dickson on whether he had interest in the senatorial seat, he responded in the negative and that people of the senatorial district are mounting serious pressure on him to contest.  Ottah-Agbo stated in a text message: “He is not interested in Senate. The people of Bayelsa West Senatorial District are mounting serious pressure on him to go to the senate after his governorship in 2020!”  Though Ogola did not indicate second term interest, he told BD Sunday on phone that some elders in the senatorial district have been holding meetings over the matter, but he remained unperturbed by the development maintaining that he has no issues with Governor Dickson over the senatorial seat.  Ogola who made the disclosure after the inspection of damage caused by oil spill Agoro in Ekeremor Local Government Area, was emphatic that he has no issues with the governor and he is still the leader of Bayelsa State Caucus in the National Assembly.  When our correspondent contacted Agbedi on phone whether Governor Dickson wanted to use him as running mate to whoever would emerge as governorship candidate, he laughed it off wondering where such a story was coming from in the state.  Agbedi stated: “If I have my way, I want my people to return me to the National Assembly. That is where I want to be.”  Ewhrudjakpo, who responded via text message when asked if he was interested in going to the Senate, said simply, “That is complete unfounded rumour.” . 