Lanre Razak is a former deputy national chairman of the defunct All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP), former Commissioner of Public Transportation in Lagos State, and currently a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In this exclusive interview with Iniobong Iwok, Razak assesses the state of the APC, the Buhari administration, among other issues in the polity.  How would you react to recent defection of some members of your party to form an alliance with the opposition? If you are closely monitoring events, those people are not really genuine party members; they were trying to take over their states, which was not successful, and other people are looking for serious administration from those states. We are looking for people who would rescue the country, these people cannot do it. We have Buhari, the president who is not corrupt; he would not allow the wealth of the country to be looted among the few individuals and that is also one of the reasons for this problem.  Don’t you think their defection would affect the APC’s chances in next year’s general elections? Not as much as you think. What is their percentage in the country? Nigerians know they would be an impediment to the country, and now they have formed an alliance, Nigerians would fight them. They formed an alliance; how many House of Assembly members, senators, or chairmen do they have among them? The only party in the country that can win election is PDP and APC; they are not serious politicians, and they don’t have antecedents that can make them to be trusted with public offices.  Nigerians are of the view that President Buhari has not delivered on his campaign promises. What’s your view? When people talk, I just laugh, because they don’t have fact and figures of what they are saying. If you know the level of destruction that was brought to this country before APC assumed office, you would never want the PDP back to power. I mean destruction that happened for 16 years and you cannot claim it back in three years. The railway line that they could not complete, Buhari has done it as soon as he came to office.  But that was former President Goodluck Jonathan’s project? But they could not finish it. If you have 11 years and you could not finish such, how long do you want to use? The entire projects that they could not finish we are working to complete them. Look at what we are doing in Lagos-Badagry road, we are working to complete it, among several other projects across the country. Buhari has done well with the resources available to him; he has applied it and used it to turn around the country.  What about the killings in the country, don’t you think there is need to replace some of the service chiefs? If you have headache, would you cut off your head because of that? The security agencies are working and there are people researching, working out the cause of the current killings. Buhari is working to stop the killings, he should be supported. People should give the police the right information. I am happy the National Assembly has supported the call for state police; so let’s see the person who would leave his house and go and kill.  Does Buhari deserve a second term in office? He would get another term by the grace of God. He would get it.  Do you think the APC could have managed the recent crisis that led to the defection better? I don’t cry over spilt milk. The crisis has come and gone. I am happy that the leader of the party, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is looking at resolving the issues and machinery has been put in place by the party to resolve them. I am sure that very soon we would resolve them.  How do you react to the recent crisis in Lagos APC that led to the factionalisation of the state exco, while two congresses were held? When they did not take part in the congress from the ward level, how can they take part in the state congress? It is the delegates at the ward level and local government that would select the state executives. Let me tell you that apart from the congress in Ogba, there was no other parallel state congress in Lagos State; we had only one congress. No one should support that. These things are happening because these people have no knowledge of the running of party. We had only one congress and that was the one that was attended by INEC and officials from the national headquarters of the party. This is democracy, you have to accept it when you lose or win, and plan ahead and reassess the situation, rather than planning to pull the party down.  Are you saying their grievance was not genuine? It was not; there is a process of appeal in the party and anybody aggrieved should go through that process.  Are you satisfied with the internal democracy in the APC? I am satisfied with internal democracy in the party because I have been involved in the running of the party. I was a former publicity secretary, ward chairman, local government chairman, South-West chairman, among other positions. When my chairman travels out, I know how to function and run the party well.  What is your view about the clamour for restructuring of the country? I would rather say that there should be devolution of power from the centre to the state and local governments. We should practice true federalism; states should not be appendages of the central government. Except we want to merge the states, and except we are thinking of a parliamentary system. Some of the people calling for restructuring don’t know what they are talking about. Each state should know its limitations and should be able to manage the local government the way it likes in its locality, that is what I think is the ideal situation for this country. I have said it that we need to go back and debate if we need a presidential system or a federal system because the current system is very expensive. If we want a presidential system, we have to do it. So the call that the legislature should be cancelled is unnecessary to me. Put less money in the centre; give 60 percent to the state and the federal government can have 40 percent, then it means more money to the states and they can do more projects for the people.  Does it mean you don’t believe in local government autonomy? I don’t believe in local government autonomy for now. They should be under the states; I know what I am saying because I have been a local government chairman. Their functions, like managing parks, cleaning of the environment, overseeing markets, some of these could be better done when they are under the state. We still want the state to provide law for the local government.  What’s your view about the situation in Ekiti State? One thing is clear, the people of the state know who to vote for and the kind of government that should govern them. You know the character of Ayo Fayose. My people say, show me your friend and I would tell you who you are. We need credible people in the system in the country; it is only when you have a clear knowledge and understanding of the people that you can think of helping them, and the current administration in Ekiti State does not know that. But Fayemi was accused of performing below expectation in his first term? What are the criteria that Fayemi did not do well in his first term and would not do well this time? Is it all about sharing money among the people? An adage says, teach me how to fish, instead of giving me fish. Create a platform where people can secure jobs. Ekiti is a highly educated state and it should not be rubbished. Ekiti people would want to rescue the state and that is what they did.