Technology is everywhere around us, connected to almost everything that we own. The wave of technology innovation such as cloud computing, social and corporate networking and next generation mobile computing being rapidly adopted not just by individuals but by businesses and other institutions is creating unmatched levels of access and connectivity across people, information, systems and assets worldwide. This unparalleled level of access has raised the importance of cyber security. Research from the latest PandaLabs report shows that cyber criminals are evolving to more sophisticated agendas such as espionage, dis-information, data manipulation and disruption of infrastructure in addition to the common data theft, extortion and vandalism. A major challenge for businesses today is loss of data due to cyber-attacks, as data is one of the most valuable assets, and most often the most vulnerable. More businesses are digitized thus exposed to an increasing number of threats, hence the need for security to be the top priority in any thriving company. Cyber-attacks will continue to occur, but only the prepared and informed entities can contain losses. Also, proper protection needs a concerted effort across people, processes and technology. According to the Serianu Africa Cyber-security Report in 2016, Africa is one of the most affected continents in the world, and Nigeria, being the largest internet user in Africa, is one of the most targeted countries in Africa. Proper education paves way to better informed decisions and operations. Numerous organizations have taken initiative and are attempting to ensure proper awareness on cyber-attacks and cyber security strategies. Cisco, is one of such organizations determined to reveal guidelines that will better prepare organizations for such attacks. According to Cisco’s 11th Annual Cybersecurity Report, malware has become more vicious and harder to combat. Likewise, attackers are developing more skill in creating malware that can evade traditional sandboxing. Supply chain attacks are increasing in velocity, complexity and impact. They can now affect computers on a massive scale, persisting for months or even years. Cisco researchers observed a two-fold increase in malicious web traffic volume in roughly over 12-months. The report stated that the level of malware evolution last year alone demonstrates that cyber adversaries continue to learn. The report goes on to emphasize the need to raise the bar now – top down leadership, business led, technology investments, and practice effective security. Cisco’s Annual Cyber-Security report not only identifies problems in businesses as regards cyber-attacks, it highlights solutions to these problems. Some actionable steps proffered to stay ahead of adversaries are: implementing first-line-of-defense, adoption of advanced security technologies that include machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities, adherence to corporate policies and practices for application, system, and appliance patching. There persists a potential risk of using software or hardware from organizations that do not appear to have a responsible security posture. Attackers are taking advantage of the fact that security teams are having difficulty defending evolving and expanding cloud environments. As a solution to reduce supply chain attacks, Cisco, in its report, highlights the need to review third-party efficacy testing of security technologies and significance of an advanced security system. The use of cloud-based security technology has been a key factor in helping Cisco to drive and keep its median TTD (median time to detection) to a low level. Faster TTD helps defenders move sooner to resolve breaches. Adequate preparation is a necessary ingredient in the fight against cyber-attacks, as is the availability of professionals. Cisco is helping address the skills gap with the Cisco Networking Academy program that also offers dedicated cybersecurity courses. No organization, regardless of size or industry, is immune to cyber-attacks. A single breach of security could cause significant financial, reputational or regulatory consequences, therefore, businesses must increase their focus on cyber-security with the purpose of protecting sensitive data and systems.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson