If you had followed suit over the years from Ocean’s Eleven in 2001 to Ocean’s Twelve in 2004, then you had Ocean’s Thirteen in 2007, then you are in for a treat with the latest of them all, Ocean’s 8! With an all-female cast, featuring loads of amazing and popular actresses, this movie had a lot of buzz and hype, but for me was just okay. Don’t crucify me, I enjoyed my stay in the cinema room, but I still felt like something was missing. I don’t know if it’s because there was no man in it or somethings were pretty unnecessarily and unrealistic. The wow factor wasn’t there and sadly I was expecting it.  It was exciting to see the amount of planning and sleepless nights that had to go into this operation, by this group of ladies. A well thought out operation and a group of young talented ladies with unique skills. All played important roles as they made up for each other’s weaknesses. At the end we were all surprised as they even stole more than what was required, which made them even richer. Never underestimate the worth of an old Cartier neck-piece or pieces as the case may be. The movie was written by Olivia Milch and Gary Ross and directed by Gary Ross. They had a well thought out and articulated story, which linked properly. The production was good, the cast and crew were on point, nice costumes and amazing action scenes. The end of the movie was absolutely amazing as the girls all cashed out  big time to start their dream lives. Watch trailer:  Cast: Sandra Bullock, Cate Blanchett, Anne Hathaway, Helena Bonham Carter, Mindy Kaling, Rihanna, Sarah Paulson, Awkwafina, Richard Armitage Genre: Action, Adventure & Comedy Director: Gary Ross Ratings: PG 13 (for language, drug use and suggestive content) Written by: Olivia Milch and Gary Ross Runtime: 110 mins Studio: Warner Bros. Pictures Ocean’s 8 was okay with a beautiful story sequel to the Ocean’s Eleven, Twelve and Thirteen, you will wonder why 8 now, off course it will be quiet difficult to bring together 14 lead actors in one movie. I felt it was nice and a new twist with having all women in the cast, but there was just something missing out for me, one that was even quiet hard to lay a finger on. To my verdict I would say they deserve a 7/10 nice cast and story, but a bit of the real action was missing, they made it look so easy and we all know that kind of mission isn’t that easy to pull. For the action movie lovers, then you could try this out.