Kehinde Oduniyi is the chief executive of Kenniefit, a Lagos-based business that creates unique leather shoes. Kehinde has a Bachelor of Science degree in Social Work from the University of Lagos. She sits down with BUNMI BAILEY to talk about her leather business and how she copes with few challenges.  Tell us about your business? I started my shoe business when I was an undergraduate student in the University of Lagos. I ventured into the shoe business as an alternative means of survival. I started as a retailer whereby I would get readymade shoes and resell. After a while, I picked up interest in producing and making shoes because I had a passion for that. On that note, I registered for a shoe training class around Sabo Yaba, which is very close to Unilag. While I was attending my training classes, I still did my usual buying and selling of footwear. As God would have it, I was able to gather some capital together to get a small place for my business, and to God be the Glory, I started my shoe business and started making it myself. As time went by, I formed a legal entity by registering my brand name, setting my business personal account and I registered for taxes. The brand name is called Kenniefit. Why I chose that name was because the brand itself could still go into other businesses that have to do with wears. How long have you been running your business? Four years now. Apart from shoe-making, are there other services or products you offer? We train individuals who have the drive to succeed. We help in providing jobs for undergraduates that have minimal means of survival, and we also help in nurturing our team by providing an environment that is conductive for creative thoughts. What was your initial start-up capital? My initial start-up capital was N300, 000.  What is unique about your business? The uniqueness of my shoe business is that it is lucrative. Secondly, my products have good quality. What are some of the challenges that your business faces? One of the major challenges I personally face in this business is that we don’t have access to quality structural equipment. We also have challenges with maintaining quality work and services. For instance, if you are lucky to get a very good material for a particular production, you might not be lucky to get that same material for continuity. We are also faced with the challenge of capital. This is the father of all because without capital, no objective can be actualised.  How can government address these challenges? Government should assist with the creation of refined and leather manufacturing factory. They should also endeavour to create an atmosphere whereby loans and grants are opened to all individuals. They should also help with the creation of vocational training for interested individuals and assist them with basic equipment for the actualisation of the trainings. How can the leather industry contribute more to the Nigerian economy? It is already contributing to job creation and gross domestic product. But like I said earlier, government should assist with the creation of refined and leather manufacturing factory. They should also endeavour to create an atmosphere whereby loans and grants are opened to all individuals. How would you say your business has grown since you started? To an extent, the brand has two branches located at Mushin and the other at Sabo, both in Lagos. The brand has also been able to train more than five persons over the years. It has also been able to employ three other apprentices. What would you tell others like yourself who want to go into the leather business?  My advice to those that want to venture into shoe business is that they need to keep to these watchwords: Patience, perseverance and focus .Rome was not built in a day. No matter the setbacks, keep fighting.