As Investors await the decision of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting which kicked off yesterday Monday, and will climax today, analysts expressed divergent views over interest rate decision in light of reduced inflationary pressure.
While some of the analysts expect a 200 basis point cut in the benchmark interest rate others anticipate no change. “We expect a rate cut of 200bps tomorrow to help the economy along. What are the risks to this view? The outsized budget just announced may trigger some caution on the part of the MPC. However, with money supply growth still weak, we think there is ample room to cut rates, without risking FX stability or inflation,” Razia Khan, managing director, Chief Economist, Africa and Middle East Global Research, Standard Chartered Bank said in an email to BusinessDay.
Nigeria’s (inflation) year-on-year slowed marginally to 11.23 percent in June from 11.61 percent the previous month, but still remains well above the 6-9 percent preferred band.
Johnson Chukwu, managing director/CEO of Cowry Asset Management Limited, who spoke with BusinessDay by phone, said the drop in inflation will not change the outcome of the MPC which he votes for a hold.
His reason for a status quo is based on the fact of expected inflationary pressure following the expansionary budget which was signed in June 20, pressure from political spending among others.
“We anticipate a “HOLD” decision at the MPC meeting, and expect the committee to strike a more hawkish tone”, said analysts at Vetiva Research.
At its meeting in May 2018, the MPC maintained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 percent, with the asymmetric corridor at +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR; it retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Liquidity Ratio (LR) at 22.50 percent and 30 percent respectively.
The fears of MPC are that the expansionary fiscal policy will undermine macroeconomic stability and that, in line with trends in selected emerging markets such as Argentina and Turkey, the offshore portfolio community will exit Nigeria in increasing numbers. It does acknowledge the impressive disinflation gains this year but sees them vulnerable in the second half to the FGN’s fiscal stance.
“There is still the possibility of a rate cut before yearend if the committee’s fears about the consequences of an expansionary fiscal policy and about a substantial exit by offshore investors are not borne out. We have to acknowledge that prospects of such a cut are fading fast,” analysts at FBNQuest said.
Nigeria’s external reserves have been dropping consistently since 06 July 2018. It stood at $47.38 billion in July 20, 2018. The 30-day moving average external reserves decreased by 0.34 percent, down from US$47.61bn at end-May to US$47.45bn at 18 July 2018.
The Naira depreciated slightly in the Investors & Exporters (I&E) and Nigeria Inter-Bank Foreign Exchange (NIFEX) windows to N361.59/$ and N346.25/$ respectively on July 9th relative to N361.25/$ and N340.25/$, in that order, on May 23rd when the MPC last convened according a report by FSDH Research, a subsidiary of FSDH Merchant Bank limited.
The depreciation pressures witnessed in these market segments stemmed from stronger demand for the dollar, chiefly due to the repatriation of funds by the Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPIs). Meanwhile, the local currency appreciated against the US dollar at the parallel market by 1.37% to close at N361/$ on July 9th, from N366/$ in May, on sustained liquidity injections across market segments by the CBN.  HOPE MOSES-ASHIKE 