Madonna Ononobi is a co-founder of Thank U Cash, an online business that helps customers to get cash reward on their purchases within a registered community.  Through her online platform, Madonna along with Simeon Ononobi and Suraj Supekar, her fellow co-founders, established a cash network for businesses to grow their sales. The network enables customers to get cash reward for each transaction within the community of businesses.  Madonna and other co-founders were inspired to establish Thank U Cash in August 2017 to help businesses grow and retain their customers through a reward system.  “We found out that businesses were not growing because they did not have the right target of people either shopping with them or increasing returning customers. So, we started giving customers some cash-back whenever they spent at these merchant locations,” Madonna says.  “What this did for the merchants was that it ensured they knew exactly who was buying from them and also were able to share customers from one pool called the Thank U Cash community. With these, merchants got more awareness for their products, more customers and increase in sales,” she explains.  The economist-turned-entrepreneur states that her initial start-up capital was raised from family members and friends.  She notes that the business has grown steadily since starting, adding that the enterprise has constantly been growing by 10 percent on a month-on- -month basis since starting. The entrepreneur discloses that the business now has 19, 000 shoppers on board in Lagos.  “Who does not like cash?” she asks, rhetorically.  “Since inception, we have grown 10 percent month-on-month. We have been able to generate 19,000 shoppers in Lagos and we are still growing. With advertising and more partnership, we intend to increase the number tremendously,” she says.  She adds that the business does not provide e-payment solutions but a platform for enterprises to give reward for purchases made by their customers.  Madonna tells Start-Up-Digest that the unwillingness of customers to embrace change remains the biggest challenge confronting the business.  She calls on Nigerians to embrace change and always seek knowledge on new technologies.  Also, she states that the huge infrastructural gap is also a major problem confronting the business.  Madonna calls on the government at all levels to bridge the country’s huge infrastructural gaps and ensure that businesses have the right environment to thrive.  The young entrepreneur also urges governments at all levels to create platforms for partnerships for entrepreneurs. “Government should create more avenues for businesses like ours to partner with relevant government bodies, increase support and funding for new and innovative businesses like ours,” she notes.  Speaking on expansion plans, Madonna says her business intends to spread its operations to other major African countries.  She points out that the country’s technology sector has the potential to diversify Nigeria’s economy, adding that it is ICT that drives the growth of other sectors.  On her advice to other entrepreneurs, Madonna says, “The road will always be tough, but it does not mean you should give up. Nothing good comes easy, which means consistency is vital for you to survive. So, stay strong; as long as you are on the right part you will win in the end.”