Mahindra &Mahindra Limited, the world’s largest tractor maker, along with its channel partners in Nigeria-Springfield Agro and VIP Merchandise Enterprise – are collaborating to create and scale up technologies that will increase agricultural productivity in the country.  For years Mahindra has been partnering in the growth story of Africa’s agriculture by offering its range of products in the areas of agriculture, farm technology, mobility and power generation.  “We have partnered with Springfield Agro and VIP Merchandise to provide end to end solutions to farmers to improve their yield per hectare,” said Arvind Mathew, chief international operations, Maindra said at a media roundtable in Lagos.  “We are creating a one stop shop to provide farmers assistance with modern farming technologies and teach them to adopt innovative farming techniques.  “Nigeria is among the largest markets and economies on the African continent and presents very strong growth prospects. We have been working steadfastly with our channel partners – Springfield Agro and VIP Merchandize – to ensure that we deliver innovative solutions to meet the needs of the farming communities,” Mathew said.  Mahindra has since expanded its product offerings in the two and three wheeler tractors in the country, he said.  Speaking also during the media round table, Tarun Kumar Das, managing director, Spring Field Agro said that Springfield partnered with Mahindra to help address the issues of low mechanistaion use in Nigeria.  “Nigeria has a low maintenance culture. So they need tractors that are easily maintained and we believe that Mahindra machines are the right choice. Springfield Agro and Mahindra have established a strong presence in Nigeria over the last decade to provide solutions in the agriculture and farming space,” Das said.  “We have recently commissioned a Mahindra tractor assembly plant in Kaduna State, with a manufacturing capacity of 5,000 tractors and associated agricultural implements. It can produce various ranges of tractors from 25Hp to 80Hp to cater to a wide spectrum of customer needs. Over the years, Mahindra and Springfield Agro have created thousands of satisfied customers in Nigeria,” he added.  He noted that scaling up technology in the country’s agricultural sector is necessary to attract youth into the industry, saying that youths are not willing to involve themselves with the drudgery of farming.  Das said that over 50 percent of Nigeria’s farming land is being cultivated by hoes and cutlasses which have continued to limited farmers to increase their production areas.  According to him, Mahindra, along with Springfield Agro, launched the Farm-To-Folk initiative in collaboration with the Katsina State government to address some of the country’s mechanisation’s issues in the state.  Prakash Vaswani, chairman, Geepee Group said, “boosting local employment is crucial to the economic development and prosperity of the country. We have setup assembly plants in Sango Ota and Kano where we assemble Mahindra two and three-Wheelers and generator sets, in turn providing employment opportunities to the local manpower in the regions.”  “Also, with our products, Arro and Alfa, we have not only been offering customized and unique mobility solutions for the market, but also delivering employment and entrepreneurial platforms to empower the community to Rise,” Vaswani added. 