The annual congress of the International Federation of Agricultural Journalists recently held in the Netherlands, and it was an opportunity to participate in tours to some parts of one of the smallest countries in the world by land mass, yet, the second largest exporter of food in the world after the United States. One of the places visited was CRV, a cattle breeding centre that has left its footprints on dozens of countries including Nigeria. With the urgent need to improve how cattle is raised in Nigeria, Sander de Roos, Manager for Product Development Genetics was engaged to share some insights, on what Nigeria can benefit from the Netherlands where on the average, cows deliver over 30 litres of milk per day. Excerpts: In the presentation Nigeria was listed as a country where CRV is actively present. Our activities in Nigeria are relatively small scale, but still we do have Nigerian customers for semen of our Fleckvieh breed as well as Holstein.  Dairy farming is a complex, with many factors influencing production and quality of production. Improvement of cattle stock is wholly dependent on the goal of the farmer as well as the system the farmer finds himself in. CRV can offer great genetic improvement and potential for farmers to produce more milk but this is only the genetics part of production. Physical aspects such as feed, water and climate are all a direct influence. The same goes for management on a farm. To simply ask for a step by step solution to more production in a dairy farming is like asking which car to buy; this is dependent on so many factors that an answer is impossible to generalize.  The products that CRV can offer for dairy production are Fleckvieh (Germany), Holstein (Holland, USA, New Zealand) and Jersey (USA or New Zealand).  Or breeds like Gyr and Girolando (Brazil) that are more suitable for dairy production in hot and tropical climate.  CRV offers numerous beef and dairy related breeds which can be used to improve the genetic pool and capacity to produce better beef. Once again, physical and managerial aspects are important in improving general quality of the beef. Also it is important to realize what is understood by quality as the beef which is preferred in one place may be non-preferable in another area. The products that CRV can offer for beef production are beef breeds from South Africa like Bonsmara, Brahman, Boran, Nguni, Tuli, and Santa Getrudis, all very suitable for Nigeria. Free grazing systems where cattle are run through a country with no specific borderlines can be found all over the world. In principle there are benefits and disadvantages of free range and grazing systems. The biggest disadvantage that has been found to be developing, is the increase on use of land. With a growing population, the pressure on livable and fertile soils is on a rise. Competition for the use of land as well as governments increasing the control over land is putting pressure on the old grazing and free range systems resulting in tensions, such as the ones in Nigeria. If this system is to be implemented on the long run, there shall be an increasing demand for controlling and legislation surrounding the use of the land and thus of this system. This is a generalization. Small scale farmers have been a part of agriculture for as long as history can depict. Trends show that in order to stay competitive, efficient and productive many small scale farmers organize themselves into farmer-producer organizations or cooperatives. This strategy has been used all over the world resulting in great successes and developments. For example, the Netherlands has seen cooperatives in agriculture to be very successful, one example is that of CRV, where farmers formed a cooperative to ensure the development and access to the best possible bovine genetics. 