The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has disclosed that 48 political parties will contest the Osun state governorship election scheduled for the 22nd of September, 2018. INEC chairman, Yakubu Mahmood disclosed this at the swearing-in ceremony of two new Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) on Wednesday, stressing that the commission is currently processing the nomination forms for the Osun poll. Yakubu noted that the two RECs- Garba Attahiru Madami and Ahmad Bello Mahmud are to resume work immediately, saying “a record number of forty-eight (48) political parties have nominated candidates for the election. The commission is currently processing the nomination form. “Our preparation for the Osun state governorship election continues in earnest. Nomination of candidates closed yesterday (Tuesday) in line with the timetable and schedule of activities released by the commission in October last year,” he further added. The commission also announced August 18th 2018 date for the Rivers and Taraba states bye-elections, which bring to six the number of bye elections the commission will be conducting before the Osun governorship poll. For the bye-elections in Rivers and Taraba, Mahmood said the timetable and schedule of activities would be out today after the Commission’s weekly meeting. Meanwhile the two new RECs, Madami from Niger State and Mahmud from Zamfara state have been posted to Kwara and Kebbi respectively because according to INEC rules, they are not allowed to serve in their states of origin. Mahmood charged the new RECs to quickly familiarize themselves with the relevant provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended), the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), the commission’s plans, guidelines and regulations as well as established processes and procedures. He also assured them of the commission’s support as they discharge their duties. In his reaction on behalf of the new RECs, Madami assured INEC management of their willingness to obey the oath of office and also contribute to their quota to a free, fair and transparent elections in the country.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja 