Project Pink Blue, a Non- Governmental Organisation (NGO) promoting cancer awareness and management, with support from Aspire Coronation Trust (ACT) Foundation has rolled out a life-saving initiative for 2000 Nigerian men known as “Men on Blue”.  The initiative is focused on prostate cancer awareness, free prostate specific antigen (PSA) test, support, health education and navigation.  Men on Blue is one of Nigeria’s first prostate cancer initiatives that is traveling to different cities across Nigeria.  In Nigeria, Prostate cancer has become the most common cause of cancer death among men. The cancer develops mainly in older men and could be more aggressive in African men compared to men of other races.  Men aged 65 or older are more at risk of prostate cancer, the average age at the time of diagnosis is about 66. Hence, it is rare in younger men, however, with the increasing rate of prostate cancer, men aged 40 above are encouraged to get screened.  Researchers have found several factors that might affect a man’s risk of getting prostate cancer, these are: age (6 in 10 cases of prostate cancer are found in men older than 65 years), family history/genetic factor (having a factor or brother with prostate cancer more than doubles a man’s risk of developing this disease), poor diet, obesity (overweight), smoking, exposures to some chemicals, sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and vasectomy.  According to Runcie Chidebe, executive director, Project PINK BLUE, in Nigeria, several families have lost their fathers, uncles, brothers, and in-laws to prostate cancer, mostly because the prostate cancers were presented to the doctors at a very late stage, when the cancer has spread to other parts of the man’s body like bone; lymph nodes.  “In fact, cancer that remains in the primary site does not kill. This is our rationale for “Men on Blue” providing awareness and free screenings to encourage early detection and save our men from this disease” he said.  The Men on Blue project has distributed over 1000 awareness materials in different local languages including, Igbo, Hausa and pidgin English; over 300 men have also received prostate specific antigen (PSA) test free of charge. At diagnostic centres, a PSA test cost N6,000 – N10,000, however, through the funding from ACT Foundation, all the 2000 men are getting this screenings for free.  While addressing the press, Sarah Dantsoho, programme director of Project PINK BLUE, made a call to all Nigerians to take their health serious, be mindful of their eating habits and urging all men aged 40years to go for prostate cancer screenings.  She also urging companies to focus on the health of their workforce by incorporating prostate cancer screenings part of their annual events and government at all levels to match their commitments with actionable investments in addressing the burden of cancer   Men on Blue is sponsored by Aspire Coronation Trust (ACT) Foundation, a grant making organization established to support local, national and regional non-profit organizations working to address challenges and vulnerabilities across African continent especially in Health, Environment, Entrepreneurship and Leadership  Project PINK BLUE is a community-based cancer non-profit with focus on cancer awareness, free screening for rural hard-to-reach communities and poor women to phase-out late diagnosis of cancer and to reduce the incidence of cancer in Nigeria.