Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State in this exclusive interview in his office in Port Harcourt with BusinessDay editors, ZEBULON AGOMUO, JOHN OSADOLOR and IGNATIUS CHUKWU, spoke on his perceived strategic position in People’s Democratic Party; why the All Progressives Congress is desperate to take over the state and the need for Nigerians to show more interest in the electoral process as the country inches towards the general election in 2019. Wike, who strongly condemned the alleged brutality visited on Ayodele Fayose, governor of Ekiti a few days to last Saturday’s gubernatorial election in the state by security agents, said it was unfortunate that such could happen in a democratic setting. He also spoke on other issues: Excerpts: You seem to be the rallying point for the opposition and every top PDP leader comes to seek your attention and support; what is the reason for this because we discover that if you have not spoken on any issue, that matter is not closed? I do not think that is the exact situation. Everybody who loves PDP (you may be in PDP just because you cannot be with the other people, but that does not mean you love PDP); you will know that you have a role to play. Since 1999, I was a local government chairman on PDP ticket. I was made chief of staff, minister; and now governor on PDP ticket. Why would I allow the platform that elevated me to where I am to die? That is the same commitment I am talking about. I love PDP and I will do anything to make sure that PDP stays in this country. Part of what we have done is to prove to the whole world that we are doing something. If I commissioned those projects, there would still be doubt. So, we say, everybody come; traditional rulers, ambassadors, members of the ruling party, etc. We brought the Sultan of Sokoto who laid the foundation stone of the Rivers State Traditional Council Secretariat to come back this year to commission it. The logic is if somebody tells him contrary things about that project, he would say, ‘look, I laid the foundation, I commissioned it’. We brought the Ooni of Ife to commission the Cultural Centre. It was about 40 percent done since 2008. Today, it is the best outfit in Nigeria. When the Ooni saw it, he marveled that such was in Nigeria. We brought the European Union Ambassador to commission some offices and one of them was being occupied by a UN agency. We brought the British High Commissioner to commission the Rumuokuta Girls Schools to see what the school is now and he was amazed how the place has transformed. We still left one building there to show how the place was and to see what we have done now. He was amazed. I invited those who are running for the presidency in the PDP to come and commission projects and they came: Atiku Abubakar, Ahmed Makarfi and others. They are not coming because I am strong, but on invitation. We even invited opposition strong men; Speaker Dogara, Sokoto governor, Senate president, they came and saw with their two eyes. That is how it is supposed to be. Politics should not be that if you are in one party, you should not see eye to eye with the others. We should go round and see what they are doing too. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State was here to commission projects and I have been to his state to commission projects also. If they end up thinking that this man is strong in the party, so be it, but it was not the intention. Your Excellency, you saw what happened in Ekiti few days ago, and many fear for Rivers State. What’s your take on it? This is not the first time. I know them and I know their character. I know what they can do. It did not start today but it started during the reruns in Rivers State. They sent 40,000 for mere LGA elections, not in the whole state. In fact, it will be worse in 2019. I know them. When a government is so desperate, that government can do anything. This is a government that does not respect the rule of law. How does such a government fight corruption? If I tell you what this government has been doing, as I speak to you, they are using the EFCC to do everything against the state. We are not bothered because in 2006/2007, the Rivers State government took the EFCC to court and the court gave judgment and say, you cannot interfere in the financial transactions of the state. It is only the Rivers State House of Assembly that has such powers. The EFCC took the matter to appeal but they have not been able to set that judgment aside. Because they do not obey the law, they are asking our contractors questions. If they want to turn this country upside down, it is okay. You cannot coerce anybody. If you see the plans they have for Rivers State in 2019, you will marvel. They want power at all costs and when a man wants power that way, he can go to any length. All I am doing is to put my state on notice, so that when that desperation begins, I say, I told you this. Rivers State will be a war zone in 2019 because they are not prepared to do free and fair elections. They know they have nothing to tell Nigerians, they resort to vindictiveness. They did that to Ekiti because the governor has been vocal against their administration. Now, they say, it does not matter what it takes to take Ekiti, even if it takes the governor’s life. See how the then president conceded victory in 2015, but do you think these people will concede victory in 2019? Thank God people have seen what I was saying. When you barricade a whole Government House, where then is immunity? See what the senior police officer (DPO) was saying, why did they leave? It was because there was national uproar. The security intelligence I got is that it is the same thing they will do to me, but I say, good luck. If you want all of us to carry arms, we are ready to do it, to defend this democracy. You cannot push people to the point that anything you want must be so. You cannot do that. You are pushing everybody now to defend himself. If you can do this to a sitting governor, then, you can imagine could happen to the ordinary man? And you can imagine what will happen in 2019. They are recruiting policemen to have the numbers that they will use. To them, if it means killing up to 500 persons just to snatch a state, no problem. They just want Rivers State. They will kill themselves not us. We will not die, they will die. To them, it does not matter the number of lives to be lost. That is no longer democracy. It is just about votes. We are prepared for elections because we know what we have done to the people. They do not have anything to show. The APC Federal Government cannot mention one thing they have done in Rivers State., except use of force. There is no Local Government Area I cannot go to and show what I have done for them. Let them come and show us theirs. They have nothing to campaign here with. The only instrument they have is coercion using brutality. We have said, how many people will you kill at the same time? You sent 30,000 policemen to Ekiti. No wonder herdsmen are killing people everywhere because you have posted policemen to Ekiti. See Sokoto killing is now 39 persons. It has never happened before. You have neglected the major function which is protection of lives and property to focus on how to win elections. If you listen to their meetings, it is about how to win here or there. They have trained Special Forces for elections and one of them is the SARS Commander here. I do not know why a government that came to power by vote does not want the people to vote this time again. It appears many Nigerians are now lukewarm as INEC says over 17 million PVCs have remained uncollected; what advice do you have? Nigerians do not need to be aloof. This will play into the hands of those doing badly. People should come out and take their stand. Vote and insist on your vote. No struggle is easy but every struggle takes life. That is the way to change your country. To go to sleep is dangerous because it allows a bad leader to remain. In Ekiti, they know that under credible elections, the PDP will win. So, what they are doing is causing tension in PDP strongholds and could cause apathy. I tell Nigerians, do not be intimidated. Everybody has to make sacrifice. The media played a role in 2015, why not now! Have you been so intimidated? If I was that kind of persons, I would have caved in by now. They have attempted to take my life, use EFCC, etc, but I am not moved. The task is to not allow a bad leadership to take control. Is the hand of the INEC boss clean? He has not shown us that his hands are clean. I do not want to be carried away by what INEC chairman says because that story has been there over the years. What matters is evidence of what has been put on ground for free and fair elections? Can he say no to the ruling party? The PDP and others have come together under a coalition to say power must change hands. What is the importance of this? The opposition groups need cooperation and understanding of certain things. It is allowed in politics. What that means is to say, look, we have the capacity to put all efforts together to remove this bad government. That is good for Nigeria. Coming together to move Nigeria forward is the way to go. Each group would bring their programmes and form a national agenda. We do not want to do it alone but work together so Nigeria can move forward. It should be encouraged further and that is what I stand for. Do you think the developments in Ekiti confirm need for state police and where are we in your Neighbourhood Watch Corps project? Yes, that is the evidence. The House of Reps has met to amend the law to permit state police. A governor is called chief security officer but see how he is being brutalised with flimsy excuse. State police is inevitable. On our own, we have set up the Neighbourhood Watch Corps. I hear they are recruiting but I do not want to interfere. All I said is, as you recruit, the security agencies will have to profile them to avoid recruiting bad eggs as happens in the police. They brief me from time to time. They may roll out in September (2018). How far can you accommodate the opposition; if Amaechi for instance, comes today and say, let’s work together, would you welcome it? That is what will move the state forward. We must remove our personal matters. What is the problem in the state? Nothing! A road was being done and somebody said it was passing through opposition man’s area, and I said, rubbish. The state belongs to all. So, if the minister, if he loves his state, all he should do is support his state. As minister, let him attract projects. It is not good to deny your state of projects. Who will lose, me? When I was a minister I attracted so many projects in education and funds: faculty of law in UNIPORT, Faculty of Sciences and we named it after Claude Ake; funds to UOE, to Bori Polytechnic (now Ken Saro Wiwa Poly), renovation of many schools. I did not relent because the governor and I were not together. Should I allow my state to suffer? No! I say, as a minister, see what I did for my state. You, what have you done for this state? The only thing I can see is bringing soldiers and police to kill and maim the citizens. Apart from that, not one project, not one. Rivers State produces the wealth of the nation but they do not want to see their faces. In Nigeria, continuity seems to be an issue; what arrangement do you have to develop a crop of men and women to succeed you and continue the agenda? I have always said anybody working with us in the party or administrantion knows the vision and the focus. If that time comes, we look at them and look at those that are fit to continue. We would say, can we go along with this person? It is not me. This idea of ‘I must appoint my successor’ is a problem. You are personalising this thing. To say it must be your son-in-law or your son must take over is not the right thing. It is not your property. You are not even looking at somebody who has capacity to add value. I do not have that kind of plan. We will look at it as a government and as a party. You may bring somebody here tomorrow and he will be the one to fight you. This godfatherism is somehow, it has limitation. It affects development because you must go and take permission for every action. No, I am not party to that kind of thing. That is why I am able to do my work today. The party as a whole should look at those interested and make a choice. It is not my father’s estate and, by the way, what am I protecting? There is nothing like ‘endorsement’. What for, is it a monarchy, from father to son? It is for everybody and if you think you have the capacity, throw in your bid. This idea of waking someone up to come and be governor is bad, it is wrong. That is what we must stop.