Due to its strategic role in encouraging biodiversity, safer food production for human consumption without the application of fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides with toxic substances, which leads to health complications, experts advocate for greater commitment towards organic farming from Nigeria’s government. The stakeholders who spoke during the third National Organic Agriculture Business Summit (NOABS) 2018 in Lagos recently, with the theme ‘Organic Agriculture: Abundant Opportunities for Health and Hospitality Businesses’ said that organic farming helps in keeping the country’s biodiversity. “The foundation of organic farming is to keep the biodiversity and it is also concerned about keeping the integrity of the ecology,” Akin Abayomi, a professor of Clinical Medicine, Nigeria Institute of Medical Research and an organic farmer said. “The ecosystem actually looks over us and if you do not look after them, then we should be ready to pay the price. We have nothing to handover to the next generation unless there is a radical change in the way we currently do things,” Abayomi added. He also said food grown according to certified organic standard is safe for consumption, but conventional crops are grown with synthetic inputs like fertilizer, pesticides, herbicides and others with toxic substances, which is not safe, and consumers are poised to become unhealthy. Nigeria’s role, according to the Abayomi in strengthening organic farming is to create enabling laws that will control the use of genetically modified products in the country. “The population of Africa is growing so fast that it is impossible not to use genetically modified food to meet its huge demand. But the answer lies in the people if they are willing to accept something that cannot guarantee what can happen to them in the long run,” he added. Akande Fadekemi, programme manager, Agricultural Development Programme (ADP) representing Oyewole Oyewumi, Commissioner of Agriculture, Oyo state said that organic agriculture sustains the health of the soils, ecosystem and people. Since it relies on ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles that adopts local conditions such as crop location, residues and bio-fertilisers amongst others, it should be encouraged Oyewumi said. “Organic agriculture minimises soil erosion by up to 50 percent through enhancement of soil organic matter which is very instrumental in maintaining soil fertility and vital for soil fertility,” Oyewumi said. “Organic farming supports substantial levels of wildlife interaction thereby preserving the ecosystem and ground water,” he further said. The governor noted that organic agriculture is the solution to government efforts of reducing diseases and other pathogen-laden food being consumed by its citizenry. Speaking on the standardisation of organic farming, Victor Olowe, a Professor and agronomist in the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), said that the association certified organic products for local consumption. Olowe  who is also the president of the Organic Agriculture Standard in Nigeria (NOAN) said the institution uses a scheme called Participatory Guarantee System (PGS) to certify production systems, noting that farmers planning to export their organic produce must seek a third party certification. “Currently, we are making efforts to push through an organic bill at the National Assembly. The bill might spur other farmers to embrace organic farming,” Olowe said. “We have over 5,000 organic farmers in the country now and we are expecting the numbers to keep increasing annually,” Also speaking at the summit, Olugbenga Adeoluwa, country coordinator, Ecological Organic Agriculture (EOA) said that the association has been making efforts to encourage Nigerians to consider organic farming in the country, adding that the drive can only be sustainable if it is demand driven. “We intend to work with every state hosting us to develop a plan to drive organic business in Nigeria and create a road map,” Adeoluwa said.