Local and foreign investors looking for opportunity to come into the Nigerian insurance industry, now have a window with the introduction of new Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital, announced Wednesday by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM).
The new capital requirement, which will commence 1st January 2018, will require insurance companies willing to play big in the market to either raise fresh capital, embark on mergers and acquisition for higher Tier-levels, or remain with low level capitals and underwrite small premium risks.
This development analysts say will open up the market for investors, as companies operating currently with low capitals will welcome new funds to remain relevant and underwrite big ticket risks in group life, annuity, oil, gas and aviation.
Mohammed Kari, commissioner for Insurance said the Nigeria development plan vision 2020 described the Nigeria insurance sector as a ‘gross untapped opportunity’ with low market penetration.
According to him, the foreign investors, having noted these great opportunities are attracted by the huge potential in the Nigerian insurance space.
“These investors are ready to position themselves for the future; hence the likes of Axa, Prudential, Liberty, Swiss RE, Sunu Group, Saham, and Allianz have taken position in the industry and in partnership with indigenous companies for development and growth,” Kari said.
Under the new capitalisation structure, life insurance firms need a capital level of N6 billion for Tier 1; N3 billion for Tier 2 and N2 billion for Tier 3: For non-life business, the requirement is N9 billion for Tier 1; N4.5 billion for Tier 2 and N3 billion for Tier 3. While for composite companies (combination of life and general business), the new capital requirement is N15 billion for Tier 1; N7.5 billion for Tier 2 and N5 billion for Tier 3.
According to an analyst who has been following developments in the industry, “The stage is set for the likes of Tony Elumelu Heirs Insurance to come in and play in the space.”
“You remember Heirs Insurance has long been registered as a company, equipped office, trained the staff and was ready to take-off , but could not get license, but with the current development I believe Heirs Insurance will come,” the analysts said.
The recapitalisation according to the Commission will also open doors for fresh licensing to investors willing to play in the higher Tier 1 capital levels. The last new license was issued eight years ago by the regulator to FBNinsurance.
The last recapitalisation in Nigeria took place in 2007 when the industry’s paid up capital was increased to N2 billion for life; N3 billion for non-life; N5 billion for composite and N10 billion for reinsurance.
The nation’s insurance sector has over the last five years witnessed influx of global foreign players who are taking strategic position to tap from the huge market opportunity available in the country.
With the country’s huge population in excess of 170 million, high rate of urban population and emerging middle-class, and very low penetration at less than 0.4 percent to the GDP, the industry no doubt looks attractive. Kari stated also that there were foreign acquisitions into the sector in 2014, two in 2015, five in 2016 and many more. He however stated that the growth of the Nigerian insurance industry is hinged on right products, innovation, prompt claims payment and healthy competition between local players and their foreign counterparts. According the Bareneka Thompson, director supervision at NAICOM, the recapitalization scheme is aimed at developing and applying appropriate tools that consider the nature, scale and complexity of insurers, as well as non-core activities of insurance groups, to limit significant systemic risk and thereby achieve soundness of insurance companies and contribute to the achievement of stability of the financial system.  Modestus Anaesoronye 