The poor state of educational development in northern Nigeria was brought to fore in a discussion at a day Stakeholders Forum organised by DFID under its ‘Developing Effective Private Education Nigeria (DEEPENS)’. The state of the sector was captured in a data generated under the DEEPEN project which indicates that the seven North –West states of Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna, Jigawa, Kebbi, and Kano have only 5% share of all the private schools existing in the country. Adamu Iliyasu, representative of the regional coordinator of DFID in Kano state, made this disclosure, in his address while flagging- off the programme conceived as avenue geared at sharing experiences generated from the implementation of DEEPEN project in Lagos state, with stakeholders drawn from northern states. According to Adamu, the distribution of data of private schools in Nigeria generated from a study carried out by the Agency indicates that North –Central Geo-Zone has 22% of private schools, South-East has 27%, and South –West has 38%, respectively. He disclosed that DFID is concerned about this development, which informed it resolved to continue to support the Nigerian Government in the implementation of programmes that are geared at advancing education in the country. In line with this commitment, Adamu said DFID is putting finishing touch to a plan towards implementing a special educational support programme for the states in the northern parts of the country, as a way bridging the educational gap. Shedding light on the nature of the DEEPEN project, Gboyega Ilusanya, team leader of the project, said that initiative is a five year programme which actually started in 2013, to address the market constraints faced by private schools in the country. He added that the implementation of the project which also focuses on providing support and guidance that will help the schools become a formal contributor to the nation educational development, is for now limited to Lagos state. “Cambridge Education is the managing partner for DEEPEN, an initiative by DFID to improve learning outcomes in Lagos` private schools. Using market –development approach, the programme continues the progress from the education Sector Support programme in Nigeria (ESSPIN), with a particular focus on improving learning outcome of children from low-income families. “Our team conducted a detailed market analysis to identify the main constraints for improved private education in Lagos, with subsequent interventions classified into four priority areas: “The first area was Rule and Standards: improving the formal regulatory framework and informal cultural practices that undermine the private education sector. In particular, this looked at improving the approval system using graded assessments, multiple taxation and working with school associations around their organizational capacity. “Information: Addressing the lack of reliable information available to parents, schools, and the policy –makers for making informed decisions about education. Interventions centred on media development, quality and more frequent reporting by journalists, and engagement with local communities on education issues. “Finance: Confronting inaccessibility of financial services and products to meet the needs of schools and their parents. DEEPEN has run pilots to improve fee payment systems and access to credit, as well as business development issues. “School Improvement Services: tackling the absence of affordable and effective services for low-cost schools to improve their academic leadership and teaching practices. This involves working closely with school leaders and teachers to raise standards of both management and teachers” he explained. Ilusanya further disclosed that the DEEPEN project adopted a market systems or making market work for the poor (M4P) approach. It works by understanding the structures, rules and incentives around which the core of a market-demand and supply works. The highlight of the event, was the testimonial section which featured beneficiaries of the project, such as Emmanuel Orji, President, AFED Lagos, Zakaria, Chairman, AMIS, Kabir Mustapha Executive Secretary, KSPVIB, Olarewaju Oniyitan, MD, W-Holistic Business Solution, and Scholastica Okorofor, Vileo Educational Consultancy. The one day event, also had the Commissioners for Education drawn from Plateau, Zamfara, and Gombe states, in attendance, among other stakeholders.