The last is yet to be heard about the financial crisis rocking Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), as Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour ad Employment disclosed that he was acting on President Muhammadu Buhari’s directive not to inaugurate the NSITF’s board. Ngige stated this while responding to a counter directive issued by the National Chairman of All Progressive Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole, mandating him to inaugurate the boards of all the agencies under his purview within one week. Ngige’s response was contained in a letter titled: ‘Re: Constitution and inauguration of the members of Federal Boards and Parastatals’, dated July 17, 2018 with Ref. No. ML.HMO/LAB/126/III/208 and addressed to Oshiomhole. The Minister who acknowledged that Oshiomhole was an “interested party” as a former Chairman of NSITF Board before the last administration, disclosed that Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and House of Representatives have commenced separate investigations into the scandal. The letter read: “Our National Chairman, I am in receipt of a letter referenced APC/NHDQ/GEN-S/28/018/003 dated July 11, 2018, which was sent from your Office and received by me on July 12, 2018. Ordinarily I would not believe the letter was from you except for the barrage of media statements that came before I saw the letter. I read the contents of this letter with both amazement and utter disbelief. “Firstly, it is not true that I did refuse/neglect to inaugurate Members of the re-constituted Boards of Parastatals and Agencies under the supervision of my Ministry as alleged in your letter. The Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment has four (4) Parastatals namely – The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), National Directorate of Employment (NDE), National Productivity Centre (NPC), and Michael Imoudu Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS). Boards of the latter three (3) Agencies have been re-constituted and Members were inaugurated on March 8, 2018, in conformity with a Presidential directive. “All the three (3) Boards are currently operational. The only Agency left out was the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) which before the directive, had been enmeshed with major issues of corruption involving about Forty Eight Billion Naira (N48 Billion) comprising Federal Government and Employers’ contributions to the Employees’ Compensation Fund plus some non-remitted PAYE taxes, which were carted away through well perfected sleaze operation. This resulted in the Agency coming under the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) investigation/prosecution of members of the former Board and some of her serving Officials. “An Administrative and Financial Panel of Enquiry was instituted with a Presidential approval as a follow – up to the criminal investigations. This was followed by a House of Representatives Committee on Labour and Employment probe in March 2018 which is still ongoing, and also in situ. “Comrade National Chairman, you are aware of this situation and you had broached this issue with me during your campaign period when I visited your Campaign Office, Due to the fact that a lot of the information available to me as the Minister are classified, I had told you that I will brief you latter and at our last meeting during a function on Saturday, July 7, 2018; I had sought for an appointment for the next day so I could brief you on the situation. I am not oblivious of the fact that you are a very interested Party in the matter because having served as Chairman of the NSITF Board before the last Board and as a former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, you would be interested in the tripartite colouration of the Board being maintained more so as Labour still remains your base constituency. “Mr. Chairman, a lot of the classified information from the EFCC, the Auditor General of the Federation’s “spot check” report for an Organisation with an Account that has not been audited for five (5) years (2013 – 2017), are not within your purview. In view of all these damaging reports, I had a Presidential permission not to inaugurate this particular Board at the time we did the others. “However, I wish to assure you that the Administrative and Financial Panel of Enquiry has just concluded its work and presented her Report today. The Board will be in place very soon in order to assist the implementation Committee that is being put in place by the Ministry to effect the various policy recommendations that are aimed at sanitizing the Agency and strengthening the very weak Internal Audit System that allowed Five Billion Naira (N5 Billion) to be taken out of this Organisation in one single day without voucher(s)!! “I am sorry that I will be unable to accede to your “directives” to inaugurate all the Boards within one (1) week as the Ministry had already inaugurated the aforementioned three (3) Boards but will in this case of the NSITF adhere to the “work plan” on the NSITF as approved by Mr. President who is the Head of the Government of the Federation. Based on this, be assured that the Board of NSITF will be constituted very soon, at most, before the end of July 2018,” the letter read in part.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja