The amount of cryptocurrencies that were stolen in the first half of 2018 is three times bigger than all of 2017, said CipherTrace’s new report last week. This is just as authorities across the world continue to pile pressure for cryptocurrency regulation. Cyber criminals wiped off $761 million in the first half from digital currency exchanges, compared with nearly $266 million for the whole of 2017. CipherTrace estimates that the losses could reach $1.5 billion by the end of 2018. The criminals have also stolen $1.2 billion in cryptocurrency in the last two years according to the CipherTrace Cryptocurrency Anti-Money Laundering Report for Q2, 2018. “The phenomenal growth in the value of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin over recent years has attracted investors, speculators, and thieves,” the authors of the report noted. “The first half of 2018 experienced a three-fold increase over the entire year of 2017. In addition, the FBI has reported an almost six-fold increase in the value of virtual currency in complaints from 2015 to 2017.” Other security agencies that are taking a hard look at cryptocurrency privacy include the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) and the US Secret Service. On Monday, 9 July, 2018, Chinese local news said China’s Da Lian City arrested 20 suspects from a computer technology firm who allegedly gained control of a large number of computers in order to profit from illicit cryptocurrency mining. CipherTrace explains that laundering cryptocurrency can be complicated and is different from traditional money. In the case of digital currencies, criminals the more dirty crypto money that goes into the cryptocurrency system and the more it moves around, the harder it becomes for investigators to see through the web of action and trace a path back to the source. Furthermore, the pseudo-anonymous nature of virtual currencies makes it exponentially more difficult to trace these funds as compared to cash. “As one caveat, criminals will lose a percentage off the top to move the funds, but in the end the funds appear legitimate, making the loss worthwhile,” the report stated. The next step towards full legitimacy is to integrate the stolen money into the market. According to the report, after placing the funds in the cryptocurrency system the criminals still face risks. The risks come from exchanges which are mandated to monitor activity and may issue Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs), which flag high-risk transactions. “Cybercriminals follow easy money,” Ilia Kolochenko, High-Tech Bridge noted. “And many cryptocurrency owners are the perfect victims. They are virtually unable to protect either themselves or their digital assets, being susceptible even to relatively simple phishing attacks. Law enforcement is frequently uninterested in investigating and prosecuting petty offences with digital coins theft, as they are already under water with highly sophisticated nationwide hacks.” 