Going by the difficulty in sourcing funds for the execution of new hotel projects, especially with the over 23 percent interest rate on bank loans, Nigerian hoteliers and hospitality promoters are beginning to take their investments to secondary cities across the country. Aside Park Inn by Radisson in Abeokuta, Four Points by Sheraton Ikot Ekpene, Protea Hotel by Marriott, Owerri Select, Protea Hotel by Marriott Benin City Select Emotan, Golden Tulip Jericho Ibadan, and Golden Tulip Warri Airport, many hoteliers have ongoing projects in cities such as Makurdi, Illorin, Awka, Keffi, Yanegoa, Uyo, Eket, Lafia among other secondary markets. As well, they are also following trends in the industry, which now see more business and corporate executives and even middle class willing to stay in mid-market hotel brands against the fame for star rated and luxury hotels. Aside following the trends, hoteliers, who are also part of the larger society, are driven by the realization that most people are not quick at forgetting the lessons and the impact of the recession, hence prefer to travel on budget, while many corporate organisations have now made budget travel part of their corporate policy. The development, according to Jemi Alade, a Lagos-based tour operator, is opening huge investment opportunity in mid-market brands and secondary cities to grow their economy. He noted that as purchasing power keeps sliding, mid-market hotels and secondary cities become attractive to people who are on budget. International brands are also aware of the development and have responded by introducing mid-market brands such as Double Tree and Curio by Hilton, Essentials by Golden Tulip, Select by Marriot, Four Points by Starwood, Park Inn by Radisson, while original mid-market brands such as Best Western, Ibis, among others are expanding. Speaking during the opening of Protea Hotel by Marriott, Owerri Select, Volker Heiden, vice president, Protea Hotels by Marriott, Marriott International, said: “The opening of Protea Hotel by Marriott, Owerri Select, illustrates our confidence in the potential of Nigeria and is in line with our commitment to grow in strategic secondary cities across the continent. The recent expansion of the city’s airport, will give the city better accessibility, which we are confident will further drive business travel.” The developers of the 90-room hotel; African Capital Alliance, a leading investment firm, and Kunoch Limited, sited the hotel in Owerri on the realization that the recession period witnessed many businesses leaving major cities to areas that have less demands, especially multiple taxation, high rents, high wages and huge operation costs. Kayode Aina, general manager, Park Inn by Radisson, Abeokuta, noted that the hotel is unbelievably full with guests from Lagos who are running away from noise, and are attracted by the quality of the facilities, offerings and the cost as well. In the case of Four Points by Sheraton Ikot Ekpene in Akwa Ibom State, the developer sited the hotel in a central location that targets guests from Uyo, the state capital and Aba, the commercial hub of Abia State. Due to the closeness of the two cities to Ikot Ekpene, guests who desire international branded hotels, which are non existence in Uyo and Aba, are likely going to settle for Four Points at the long run. Moreover, hoteliers are resorting to crowd funding as sourcing fund has become a big challenge, especially going by the high interest rates charged by the banks. The Abeokuta and Owerri hotels were possible by crowd funding, while owners of three other hotels in the pipeline have offered other investors stakes that are expected to bring the needed funding to complete the hotel projects in the next two years. Magnus Olumide, a hotelier, noted that the growing level of default in servicing bank loans and the speed at which AMCON takeover defaulting hotels are both alarming. “So, crowd funding is the way out now. Two to 20 people can come together to fund and share equity in hotel projects. This reduces a single investor’s vulnerability to bank loans and desire for immediate return on investment to service the debt”, Olumide concluded.  OBINNA EMELIKE