The Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC) is walking a tightrope over fundings ahead of the 2019 general elections. The dilemma of Commission BusinessDay gathered non consideration and approval of the 2019 election fund requests sent to the National Assembly before the decision of the Senate to adjourn abruptly until September, 2018 for resumption of plenary. The Chairman of the INEC, Mahmoud Yakub stated this Saturday at a retreat organized by State House Correspondents on “ Covering Election Campaigns” at the Epe Resort, Epe, Lagos. President Muhammadu Buhari had last week forwarded request for National Assembly to approve the sum of N254b for the conduct of the 2019 shortly before it went on break. Speaking at the retreat, Mahmoud Yakub who represented by the Lagos Resident Electoral Commissioner, Samuel Olumeku, said the Commission was facing funding challenge ahead of the 2019 elections but assured that the Commission will have to seek other sources of funding to ensure that its plans does not grind to a halt “ As you know, our procurement process is very cumbersome and to make a procurement, it may take up to four months and this may affect what we are doing at INEC. But we may be forced to look at other sources of funding so that our preparation for the 2019 election is not affected” He also noted INEC has an extensive process of preparations for every election, adding that “when we are not conducting election, we are out there educating the people”
The Commission expressed worries the problem of votes buying which the INEC described as “ worrisome” According to him, “Votes buying has taken a frightening dimension” , but assured that INEC has put in place measures to tackle the challenge which it could not immediately disclosed. The INEC Chairman also lamented the non- assent to the 2018 amendment to the Electoral Act, a situation he said may make the organization to jettison the Act unless it comes into effect not later than six months to the election. “ Well, as you know, we work with rules and the 2018 Electoral Act is expected to guide the conduct of the 2019 general election, but we may not be able to use it unless it comes six months before the general election” We need a budget to be able to run the election, any law that does not come into effect six months before the election cannot apply to the 2019 election. On voters card cloning, he assured that such cards will be rejected by the smart card reader, adding that “you cannot vote with such cards” The INEC Chairman advocated for a rejig on its election spending rules to include spending by individuals who want to support candidates “ As it is now, as a person, you can spend any amount to support any candidate or political party but the law only allows INEC to scrutinize the books of the political parties” He also cautioned the media against sensitization of reports that tend to discourage voters from turning out to vote, especially as it affects heightening of security risks. “INEC lack facilities to print voters card at the spot of registration which is why it issues temporarily cards. Chairman of This Day Editorial Board, Segun Adeniyi who presented a paper on “ Covering the Presidential Villa During Campaigns; Between Professional / Sentimental Interest” observed that reporters must maintain delicate balancing reporting in the Villa, but urged that reporters need to be careful. He also urged reporters to avoid sensational reportage, including stories that have no attribution. “There are lots of information going on, do not allow anybody to use you” Adeniyi who recounted his experience both as reporter and later Special Adviser on Media and Publicity at the Presidential Villa, noted that reporters must be both accurate and objective in their repotting “ You must Learn to control your emotions and be tactful in handling newsmakers and news.
“ You won’t know the fight other people do on your behalf at the background. It won’t be a sweet story when you have to face the security. “ The government just want to muzzle the Press, because they are in power today, they want to see themselves as the custodian of the national security” “Facts are sacred, while comets are free” There is nothing go8ng on today that did not happen in 2015. Let Buhari go today and another person comes in , it will be the same for the new comer. People should not be so sentimental or emotional to the extent that you become part of the story. These politicians are all the same. Try as much as possible to be objective in your reporting. Many people get worked up for people they did not even know. “People get worked up for nothing, that is why we should have an open mind and it should not affect our friendship. People are entitled to their choices but we should be objective. He noted it was a bitter experience under the late President Sani Abacha but l was surprised that even under democracy things weren’t even better. He admonished State House Correspondents to avoid the perks from coming from officials as it may affect the ways they work. 