The transaction timeline for 9mobile acquisition has been extended, as the telecoms regulator is yet to release an approval to close the deal.
Although the board of 9mobile refused to state how much more time has been granted to wrap up the transaction, Boye Olusanya, CEO of 9mobile confirmed that “the timeline extension was considered necessary to enable parties involved in the sale process to finalise the requisite transaction documentation to facilitate a smooth closure and transition to the new investor.”
Before this new development, the deal was supposed to have been concluded, and 9mobile handed to Teleology as the new owners, after the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) approves a balance payment of $251 million on or before the Wednesday July 25 2018 deadline date.
Teleology holdings limited, the preferred bidder and new investor of 9mobile had before now, successfully raised and made ready its balance of $251 million which was paid into an escrow account about two weeks before the July 25, 2018 deadline date. This is in addition to the initial $50 million paid as a non-refundable deposit on March 21 2018, to show commitment on the sale of 9mobile.
The NCC had on Tuesday and Wednesday this week, met with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and other stakeholders including 9mobile to discuss the sale of the telecoms company. However, there was no agreement to close the deal on the transaction and this gave rise to the decision to extend the timeline.
Olusanya said in a statement that “the board of 9mobile is pleased with the progress made thus far and expects the acquisition process to be completed as soon as possible.”
After receipt of the deposited $50 million, NCC said it will carry out due diligence on Teleology Holdings Limited to ascertain the company’s technical capabilities and financial strength to take over operations of the debt ridden telecommunications company. However, the regulator is yet to reveal findings of due diligence carried out and has not yet granted regulatory to close the transaction.
The sale process started late last year, after Etisalat, the fourth largest telecoms operator in Nigeria, missed loan repayments as a result of economic downturn in 2015/2016 and was taken over by the owed banks and forced to rebrand to form 9mobile.
The consortium of 13 Nigerian banks being owed $1.2 billion then appointed Barclays Africa as financial advisers to set up a fair bidding process for a new investor in the debt ridden telecoms company.
After months and several stages of submitting financial and technical bids, Teleology holdings Limited emerged preferred bidder after reportedly submitting a bid of $301 million, while Smile Communications bid a lower sum of $150 million cash and was announced as the reserved bidder who would take over 9mobile should in case Teleology refuses to meet up with payment conditions.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 