The defection plan is gaining momentum in the National Assembly. The move is further strengthened by the day as major political actors, like the former Vice President Atiku Abubakar continues consultation with other heavyweights who have expressed interest in vying for the office of Nigerian President in the forthcoming general elections in 2019. Of course, aggrieved lawmakers in the House of Representatives and Senate are not left out of the consultation. I recall that the former Vice President met behind closed doors with Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus on Thursday, 12th July, 2018; where he openly informed them of his intention to wrestle power from President Muhammadu Buhari in the forthcoming general elections slated for 2019. According to the former Vice President, thorough consultations were made with major stakeholders within and outside the party (PDP) including party stalwarts, traditional and religious leaders, various youths and women groups, the civil society and the private sector. Though, he did not give any hint on the likely merger between PDP and other coalition, but the emergence of the coalition called CUPP, signaled the destination the party is heading to. As a strategist, Atiku knew pretty well that all members of the National Assembly have automatic ticket as delegates for the primary election of any political party, hence the need for early lobby. In the letter made available to the lawmakers, Atiku, who is considered as the major power broker among other actors, solicited for the support of the PDP and nPDP lawmakers to work with him with the view to make Nigeria work again. It is evident that reasonable number of the APC Senators and members of the House of Representatives also have soft spot for Atiku who has at various times, impact positively on them when they needed his intervention. It is no doubt that the former Vice President is a philanthropist and social enough to show comradeship when it comes to political affairs. Of course, he played significant role in the emergence of the principal officers of the National Assembly. That is where the battle begins from. Now, it’s time for payback! Without mincing words, the cold war within the APC and the leadership of National Assembly seems to be worsening per second, despite reconciliatory moves to pacify the aggrieved parties in the scuffle. At present, the newly unveiled chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole seems not to be making headway in the reconciliation with the nPDP and Reformed All Progressive Congress (rAPC) members who have threatened to align with other political group. Of course, the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) which is yet to approach Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for registration, is well positioned to absorb the group of defectors who are hell bent on unseat the incumbent administration of President Muhammadu Buhari at the forthcoming 2019 general elections. The ‘masquerades’ behind the CUPP were physically present at the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between PDP, R-APC, and 32 other political parties. One of the lawmakers who volunteered to speak on the planned defection of APC members at the weekend confirmed the readiness of bloc of lawmakers majorly from the North East to follow the lead principal officers whenever he decides to cross-carpet. I’m actually looking forward to see some of the prospective defectors from the ruling party, and those in the opposition parties declare publicly at plenary on or before Thursday, 26th July, 2018, when the House will shut down for the two months recess. The roll call taken at a meeting convened by Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader showed that quite a number of lawmakers from three APC dominated states namely: Kwara, Oyo and Benue shunned the meeting for no justifiable reason(s). Though, the convener of the meeting had dismissed the planned mass defection of the APC members, saying: “I don’t dwell on rumours, I dwell on reality. Let that reality come first. There is no fire on the mountain, not at all.” I perceive the Majority Leader is unaware that, two lawmakers namely: Ahmed Chachangi from Kaduna and Sani Rano from Kano state on Tuesday, July, 2018. Of course, there are quite a number of others who are waiting earnestly to elope. For me, it is a good development for our democracy as the move will help in making the right choice during election year. Meanwhile, I was somehow worried reading through Speaker Yakubu Dogara’s speech at the just concluded ‘Parliamentary Open Week’, where he raised alarm on the animosity against the Legislature and the militarisation of democracy. He regrettably observed that the “Legislature is the paramount Arm of Government because the whole idea of limited government and representative democracy begins and ends with lawmaking and execution of laws. This reality has not dawned on many Nigerians mainly because of our military era experiences during which the elected legislature was always disbanded, at the slightest sound of martial music.” He emphatically decried the overbearing powers of the Executive arm of government and its failure to adhere to the principles of Rule of Law, mutual respect among the Arms and separation of powers including checks and balances “which deliberately makes the running of government complex and difficult in order to check tyranny and secure the liberty of citizens. Any leader who does not understand this should have no business leading a democracy.” As provided for in the Constitution, there are sanctions for such excesses as stipulated in the 1999 Constitution (as amended), though with the structure of the Federal Parliament, the impeachment of a Northern President is dead on arrival. This is what Mr. President has been enjoying over the years. But when Nigeria is restructured, such excesses will be checkmated.