In the days of President Goodluck Jonathan in government, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) designed the State Peer Review Mechanism (SPRM) to help states encourage good governance and accelerate development in their domain. It was intended that periodic reviews of progress on state development policies, plans and programmes would help share experiences and reinforce commendable and innovative practices. While it lasted, the then information minister, Labaran Maku, with a retinue of journalists, moved from one state to the other to see for themselves what was on ground in terms of infrastructure development. Governors who were adjudged to have done well were profusely commended and hailed. Those who were found wanting were also told in unmistaken terms to borrow a leaf from their performing colleagues. But whereas those who visited the states with Maku in the Jonathan administration were there to “see and praise” or “see and condemn”, the BusinessDay States Competitiveness and Good Governance Awards held at the prestigious Transcorp Hilton, Abuja penultimate Thursday went beyond “seeing and commending”. In this case, there was documented evidence and those who were commended were shown to the whole world and the criteria for the commendation were laid bare. And whereas many people saw what transpired in the State Peer Review Mechanism of those days as political, the Transcorp event was a product of passionate rating by non-partisan folks who watch “political matches” from the sidelines. So, the day will remain evergreen in the history of BusinessDay Media Limited and in the administrations of some state governors that were honoured for great performances. The event that took place inside the Congress Hall of Transcorp was to make a public show of good governance going on in some states of the federation, even in the face of economic distress. A number of states were recognised and honoured. They were adjudged to have performed creditably in various categories. In the hall, Rivers State stood out. Rivers is the state governed by Nyesom Wike, a man who has been commended by many people, including those from the ruling party, even though he is of the opposition. What is going for him today is that everybody bears eloquent testimony to the work he is doing in Rivers, for which reason he was crowned the Best Performing Governor of The Year 2018. Recall that the nickname, Mr. Project, was wholeheartedly given to the governor by Yemi Osinbajo, when he acted as president and was in Port Harcourt to commission a project. He was moved by what he saw and could not allow differences in party leaning to restrain him from saying the truth. To Wike’s credit, the name has since stuck. So, at Transcorp, Rivers’ indigenes from various parts of the country were present to savour the great moment with the governor. Many of them were said to have borne their own expenses – transportation, feeding and accommodation. The very important monarch in the state, King Jaja of Opobo, Dandison Douglas, was physically present to identify with the performing governor on the well-deserved honour. When the name of Wike was announced by the Master of Ceremony as the Governor of the Year (Overall), the atmosphere became electric. The Rivers’ dignitaries that filled the hall rose to their feet; the live band played a special tune to put the celebrants in the right mood. They roared, danced, clapped and cheered as Kenneth Kobani, a former minister and currently Secretary to the State Government, danced to the stage, where Oba Adeyeye Enitian Ogunwusi, the Ooni of Ife, who was the Royal Father of the Day, and Frank Aigbogun, publisher of BusinessDay, were waiting to hand the award to him. Before presenting the plaque to Wike’s representative, the Ooni of Ife had expressed satisfaction at the performance of the governor and the level of development in Rivers, which he said he had been a witness to. He announced that Nigeria was indeed in need of many Wikes. Kobani led the Rivers team among whom were prominent personalities in the Wike administration. They included commissioners, special Advisers, directors, chairmen of boards, local government chairmen, and several political aides of the governor. Emmah Okah, information commissioner, and Emeh Glory Emeh, special adviser to the governor on political matters and strategy, were very prominent as they danced and giggled in appreciation of the honour. Kobani, in mesmerising, victorious and triumphant steps, made his way to where King Jaja of Opobo was seated in a majestic mood, presented the trophy to him as a show of respect as a father, and danced back to his seat. It took the intervention of the Master of Ceremony to abridge the ‘tolerable commotion’ caused by the overjoyed people of Rivers. Equally royal in his appearance was the amiable governor of Bauchi State, Mohammed Abdullahi. He did not come alone. He came with a number of cabinet members and first-class emirs from the state. The governor, who won the Best Governor of the Year in Tourism Development, was well-pleased with the deserved recognition. He observed that the state deserved the award for the best-improved in the area of tourism with the great work his administration has done in that area over the years. He urged Nigerians to take a trip to Bauchi and see for themselves that the recognition by BusinessDay is in order. When he was called to the stage to receive his award, a retinue of his aides and traditional rulers, led by the Emir of Katagum, Umar Farouq, rose to cheer him. He received the plaque from King Jaja of Opobo, while BusinessDay publisher watched with admiration. Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, a fine gentleman, who believes he has all it takes to preside over the affairs of Nigeria, was present at the event, with a number of aides and admirers, including monarchs. He was business-like. Although he is said to nurse presidential ambition for 2019, he never alluded to that. He was presented with an award as the Best Performing Governor of the Year (North) by the Ooni of Ife, who also made nice comments on the personality of the governor, his giant strides in Gombe, and what he stands for in the country. Dankwambo, in his remarks after receiving his award, pointed out, among other things, that he did not think it was a fair rating to put all the governors in one basket – those who have done seven-and-a-half years and those who have done three-plus years. He believed that there should be different yardsticks to measure performances of governors depending on the duration they have served. It was also his belief that categorising all states together, irrespective of the resources available to each of the state, may not give a true reflection of the strength of a governor. He pointed out that whereas some states get monthly fat allocations from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC), some others get a meagre sum, and so comparing the level of infrastructural development in all those states and expecting same level of development may not be a fair judgment. Governor Dankwambo, however, commended BusinessDay for the initiative and pledged to always identify with the organisation on the programme. Laoye Tomori, elegant deputy governor of Osun State, represented Governor Rauf Aregbesola, who won in two categories – Governor of the Year (South) and the Best Performing Governor in Social Re-investment. Incidentally, the first award was handed to her by her monarch, the Ooni of Ife, who said he was honoured to play the double roles as recipient as well as the presenter. Ooni expressed satisfaction with the giant strides that have been made in the state in the life of the Aregbesola administration. In her remarks after receiving the awards, Tomori read a prepared speech by the governor, who said, among other things, that the recognition had encouraged him to see the benefit of selfless service to humanity, pledging to continue to serve Osun people the more. She didn’t come alone – the deputy governor was at the event with some other government functionaries. Ishiak Abubakar, deputy governor of Kwara State, represented Governor Ahmed Abdulfatah and received the award from BusinessDay publisher, Aigbogun, as one of the three best performing states in Rural & Urban Infrastructure Development. Matthew Kolawole, speaker, Kogi State House of Assembly, represented Governor Bello Yahaya. Emir of Misau, Ahmed Suleman, who also came to felicitate with the Bauchi State governor, presented the award to him. Yahaya won the Best Performing Governor in Peace and Security. Yakubu Lamai, who represented the Nasarawa State governor, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, received the award from King Jaja of Opobo. Nasarawa won one of the three best performing governors in Rural & Urban Infrastructure Development. He won in the same category as the Enugu and Kwara State governors. Jigawa State Governor, Mohammed Badaru Abubakar, was represented by his deputy, Ibrahim Hassan. He was presented with a plaque by King Jaja of Opobo. He was adjudged the Best Performing Governor inTransparency in Governance. Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State was also honoured and was presented with a plaque, having won as one of the best performing governors in Rural & Urban Infrastructure Development. He sent a powerful delegation led by Chukwuka Utazi, a distinguished serving senator, who came with other eminent personalities from the state among whom is a member of the House of Representatives, Princess Stella Ngwu, representing Igbo-Ekiti/Uzo Uwani federal constituency. It was a classy night; it was a night of glamour.The hall was filled to capacity. The Ooni of Ife’s presence added class to the event. As he walked in with his aides, arrayed in white, exuding imperial majestic aura, the hall came alive and in a jiffy, the MC called for the National Anthem to signal the commencement of the event. Earlier in his welcome address, Frank Aigbogun, publisher/CEO, BusinessDay Media Limited, said that the award was instituted to “recognise and celebrate the state governors who are contributing significantly to the growth and development of their respective states socially, economically, financially and institutionally”. He also noted that the award seeks to encourage state governors to look inwards in order to sustain their states as it was no longer fashionable to wholly rely on federal allocation which is not sustainable. He said that state polices should be geared toward improving the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) from the economic activities of each individual state. Aigbogun challenged all the states in the country to look at areas where they have comparative advantage and leverage on the abundant mineral, agricultural, national and human resources in their domain to break their poverty chain. He also emphasised the criteria that justified the awards given to individual states, urging the recipients to strive for excellence, riding on the crest of the well-deserved awards.  Zebulon Agomuo 