By signing into law the “Not-too-young-to-run” bill, President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, has removed all encumbrances that may have been standing in the way of the youth, to participate actively in politics. Chinedu Onyeizu, an engineer by profession, made this observation in Aba, Abia State, at the weekend, during his declaration, to contest for Abia South Senatorial seat, on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Speaking at the jam-packed main auditorium of Eldorado Hotel and Entertainment Centre, Onyeizu sought greater support from older generation of leaders, to ensure elaborate succession planning that will amplify the social contract between young leaders and the holders of highest offices in the country. He further observed that Mr. President since assumption of office, has been laying solid foundation for the emergence of a new crop of Nigerian leaders, noting that youths are better positioned to take over the mantle of leadership in Nigeria. He explained that his decision to run for the Senate was to contribute in the process of conceiving ideas that would impact positively in the lives of the greatest majority of Nigerians. “This passion continues to grow for as long as the siege of hopelessness refuses to give way among my people of Abia South senatorial zone,” he said. According to him, “I am fearlessly stepping forward to distort the old style of representation, which for 12 years has been characterised by selfish interest, as opposed to the betterment of the masses. “With a track record of distinguished accomplishments at home and around the world, I believe that I have what it takes to make positive impact in the lives of my people. “I started here in Aba and grew up as an Aba boy, running around the streets, hustling like every other Aba boy. I am a witness to the daily routine of most young people in Aba. “However, today apart from being a graduate of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri, I have attended Ivy League schools, like the Harvard University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where I did graduate programme in leadership, governance and business”. He promised that if elected as the senator, representing Abia South Senatorial Zone that his approach of leadership and legislation would be different from what is obtainable today. He explained that he has worked out what he termed a five-plus-one agenda programme that would focus on 5 sectors of his local economy and 1 critical sector of his local and national economies, respectively. He stated that his main objective will be to accelerate economic development activities, by complementing the efforts of the federal and state executives, in bringing sustainable transformation to the lives of the common man in Abia South senatorial zone. Onyeizu, promised to champion policies and laws that will increase ease of doing business in the country and legislation that would put Aba on a special status in national commercial standing, if elected into the Senate. According to him, the idea is to convince federal authorities to recognize the potential of Aba and establish commercial hubs in the city. “My immediate priority, if I am elected as your senator, is to find a lasting solution to the high level of hunger and poverty among our people. I have already designed a workable roadmap to achieving that. “With my Farm for Factory (FFF) programme, which I intend to avail you, we will certainly bid bye to poverty and deprivations in our constituency in a very short time. “FFF is both data and value driven. It is designed to increase visibility to our agro-produce, using technologies like Block Chain and Internet trading platforms. “FFF will act as a reliable partner and intermediary in negotiating higher returns for the produce of our hard working farmers”. He observed that small and medium sized industrial park proliferation programme is ideal in attracting investment from all parts of the world, which he said he was familiar with the necessary steps, to take in other to achieving. The Abia South senatorial aspirant noted that the current youth unemployment rate in the area was alarming and intends to bridge the gap, by putting in place innovative mechanism to create jobs for the teeming skilled and unskilled youths. “I will use my network and linkages to attract foreign direct investments into our senatorial zone. “I am convinced that new trade routes will boost commerce and trade in Aba and as, we have already put in place strategies that will facilitate introduction of new trade channels and routes for Aba-made-goods, as well as establish partnerships with foreign companies to share lessons and best practices on scaling Aba-made-products, among others.” The well attended event, attracted Senator Abu Ibrahim, chairman, Senate Committee on Police Affairs, who was represented by Aminu Lawal Othman, director, contact and mobilsation, National Committee of Buhari Support Groups, Yusuf Nalado, president, Buhari Youth Organisation and all the Local Government chairmen, women and youth leaders of APC in Abia South Senatorial Zone.