Political footsoldiers in Rivers State loyal to Governor Nyesom Wike have been reviewing developments in Ekiti State to see if what is happening in Ekiti right now can happen in Rivers State in 2019. BDSUNDAY trip to power centres in Port Harcourt witnessed hushed reviews of Ekiti vis-avis the capabilities of strongmen protecting the political landmarks of the ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Rivers State. Most of the youth leaders (as they prefer to be called) said they would easily withstand the level of threat that faced Ekiti in yesterday’s gubernatorial election. They revealed some of their secrets and strategies, saying they knew exactly what the security operatives would not want to see. In the process, powers beyond guns and cudgels were reviewed and mentioned. Ekiti State now seems to be a frontline state or sister state to Rivers. This is just because the governors of the two states (Ayo Fayose of Ekiti and Nyesom Wike of Rivers) are close political associates these days who have worked closely to make the PDP a strong opposition force in Nigeria. Both administrations collaborate on political situations; they criticise the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) together, they skin President Muhammadu Buhari together since the Port Harcourt national PDP conference in 2015 where they adopted a fighting strategy, and they fight for their states in same manner. This collaboration did not start in 2017 or 2018. When Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi (now transport minister) was governor of Rivers State, he also tried to support Ekiti under Kayode Fayemi. He also met security opoosition on the way to Ekiti who turned him away and even threatened to shoot him, according to him. Support to each other Whenever Ekiti PDP goes to war, they usually find a stunch ally behind them in the nature of Rivers PDP and the Government House in Port Harcourt. This time, the Rivers State lent a helping hand in the name of one month salary to Ekiti. The Rivers APC shouted blue murder but it did not change anything. Now that Ekiti has been attacked, the national chairman of the PDP has been dispatched to Abuja to lead protests and mobilise support for Fayose. There have been talks about sending boys to Ekiti to lend helping hands, in the hope that when Rivers faces elections in 2019, Ekiti may reciprocate and Bayelsa that would not be doing elections may also support. Wike’s broadcast As if the violence took place in Rivers State, Gov Wike made a statewide broadcast to the people of the state, thus: “In the early ours of today, Ekiti State Government House was attacked by armed security operatives on the orders of the Federal Government in their desperate and deliberate endeavour to stop the governor and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from organising a campaign rally and victory walk in support of the party’s candidate for the Saturday, July 14th governorship election. “During the attack, the governor of the state, His Excellency Ayodele Peter Fayose and scores of innocent citizens and supporters of the PDP were cruelly tear-gassed, physically brutalised and humiliated by the security operatives that carried out the dastardly act. “In explaining the attack, the Deputy Inspector General of Police (Operations), Habila Joshak shamelessly claimed that they acted to brutalise the governor and his people because the rally and peaceful road walk he was to address and lead was not authorised by the police. This claim is totally rubbish and should be told to the marines.” Wike further said: “Knowing that it cannot defeat the PDP in a free and fair electoral contest, the APC had earlier threatened to cage the governor and takeover Ekiti State Government House by brutal force. “Today’s (Wednesday) brutal action was therefore,  carried out in furtherance of the deliberate plan to intimidate the people of Ekiti State in order to facilitate the actualisation of the devilish intentions of the enemies of democracy. “I therefore,  join well-meaning Nigerians to condemn this brazen attack on the inalienable rights of the people of Ekiti State to a peaceful, free, fair and credible elections in the strongest possible terms and warn the perpetrators of the grave danger such actions pose to the survival of our democracy. “​I wish to also draw the attention of the people of Rivers State to the fact that what is happening at Ekiti State is clearly a foretaste of what the APC-led Federal Government has planned to unleash in our State and in deed, the entire country, in their desperate attempt to rig 2019 general elections and retain or return to power having performed woefully and lost the support of the generality of Nigerians.” The Rivers State governor further said: “As a matter of fact, people did not quite believe me when I told the world that the APC-led Federal Government has plans to assassinate me to enable them capture Rivers State because they know they have no electoral foothold in the state. “Today, the whole world has seen how Governor Ayo Fayose was barely lucky to have escaped the state-sponsored attempt at his life with a fractured hand and bruised face because, with him around, hale and hearty, they will never win the Saturday election free and fair in Ekiti. “In the face of these challenges therefore, I wish to call on the people of Rivers State to be prepared to fight and defend their rights to freely and democratically elect their leaders in the 2019 general election. “I sincerely believe as most of us do, that Rivers State is worth dying for and it is the responsibility of everyone of us to defend and save our democracy from being killed by the fascist, clueless, confused and irresponsible APC-led regime. “As your governor I will never surrender your mandate and abiding interest of our state to our enemies who seek to keep us enslaved and plundered even at the pain of death. ”I wish to commend and congratulate the irrepressible Governor Ayo Fayose and the people of Ekiti State for standing up and standing firm in defence of their rights to freedom, democracy and good governance. “I want to assure you of the support of the Government and people of Rivers State at these trying times. You need not fear as God will surely defeat your enemies and grant you a resounding victory come Saturday 14th July 2018.” APC fires back: The APC wasted no time in firing back through Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, the media consultant to the new party boss, Flag Amachree. He said: “Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze a chieftain of the  All Progressives Congress has reacted to the tweet by the governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose, who recently used his tweeter handle to boast of how he would import ‘Thugs from Rivers State’ to Ekiti State for the election! “Though, we know Governor Wike as someone who doesn’t care about the well-being and security of our people in Rivers State but we will no longer tolerate or keep quiet and allow him to continue to jeopardise the life of any Rivers State man, be him a militant or a thug as Fayose had described our people in his tweet. “I therefore, plead with Gov Wike to bury the thought or plot of sending more sons and daughters of Rivers State to Ekiti to act as a thug or Militant as being envisaged and plotted as the 30,000 Police Personnel sent to Ekiti by the Police Force is not for a jamboree or sightseeing. “Sadly, some of the militants earlier sent as advance team have been caught making it imperative for Governor Wike as a matter of urgency to act fast by withdrawing any Rivers State son still staying in Ekiti State acting as a thug or as a militant.” The APC chieftain and erstwhile National Publicity Secretary (NPS) of the defunct New People’s Democratic Party (nPDP) further reiterated that any Rivers State blood spilled in Ekiti State because of the 14th July 2018 would be very unfortunate as the blood of any son or daughter of Rivers State is very precious to be wasted in an election that Fayose and his team have already given up as losers. Eze recalled with nostalgia how Ayo Fayose under the influence of Aso Rock powers in 2014, supervised by Goodluck Jonathan and his security goons, did not only stop Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi then Governor of Rivers State from entering Ekiti State to join Kayode Fayemi, then incumbent Governor of Ekiti State, during the APC campaign, but ordered those stern- looking, gun wielding soldiers to shoot Gov Amaechi should he move an inch into the state. It was a horrendous situation as Amaechi eventually escaped death by the whiskers. In this regard, Chief Eze blasted Gov Fayose who apart from the above sad scenario once boasted that he is a rock that is capable of crushing both President Buhari and leaders of APC to stop turning himself as a horrendous comedian and concentrate on how to hand over the reins of the State to a better equipped Fayemi who has a blueprint on how to emancipate and develop Ekiti State. “I wish to assure Fayose and his Team of jesters that nobody is interested in his death or comic acts and antecedents. He will live to account for all his atrocities and misappropriation of both Rivers State and Ekiti Funds”. What is happening in Ekiti State should teach Nigeria politicians that there is a cosmic power that rules the affairs of men. No matter how long it takes, what you sow is what you reap. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and others in league with him should learn and retrace their steps accordingly, Eze enthused. Eze further stated that the administration of Fayose was a disaster and by refusing to pay the salaries of Civil Servants and Pensioners for over six months causing severe hardship to the entire people of Ekiti State will mark the end of PDP in that State after the 14th July gubernatorial election. Eze thanked all the PDP bigwigs and key government officials of the administration of Fayose who have dumped the sinking ship of PDP and join the salvation Team of APC and collectively we will restore the glory of Ekiti State to what it should be. He finally applauded the Ekiti voters for resolving to vote out the administration that have plunged the State into a monumental disaster.