After months of intrigues, suspense, horse trading and speculation, 14 members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) finally defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday. The defection of the senators came after unsuccessful attempts by security operatives to prevent Senate President Bukola Saraki from presiding over plenary. Although the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, had summoned Saraki to report to the head of the Investigation Team at the Intelligence Response Team at Guzape Junction, Asokoro Extension, Abuja on Tuesday, July 24 by 8am on Tuesday, Saraki outsmarted them by sneaking out of his residence which was already besieged by policemen in the early hours of Tuesday. Tuesday’s incidence also witnessed dramatic and palpable tension, as the residence of the Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, was besieged by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The Police had on Monday evening re-invited the Senate President to their office to clear his name in the Offa armed robbery in Kwara State. In commando style, a detachment of policemen had also moved to block the residence of Saraki at Lake Chad Crescent, Maitama Abuja. But Saraki was reported to have outsmarted the policemen by getting prior information and left the residence in the midnight of Monday and sneaked into the Senate chambers in the early hours of Tuesday. The security men, however, left the residence around 8am after they realised that the Senate President was not in the house. He was said to have switched off and left his phone in his home to avoid his location from being traced by security agents without his convoy. The scenario was reminiscent of what transpired at the inauguration of the Eighth Senate on June 9, 2015 after Saraki outsmarted his party, APC, and smuggled his way into the chamber to emerge as Senate President against the wishes of his party. As both loyalists of Saraki and President Muhammadu Buhari assembled at the Senate chamber, Saraki arrived out the blue at exactly 10:40am and presided over plenary. At the session, the Senate President announced the defection of 14 APC senators to PDP. They cited the crisis in the party as reason for their defection. The defectors include: Dino Melaye, Barnabas Gemade, Ibrahim Danbaba, Shabba Lafiagi, Mohammed Shittu, Suleiman Hunkunyi, Isah Misau, Monsurat Sunmonu, Abdul’Aziz Nyako, Usman Nafada, Suleiman Nazif, Lanre Tejuosho, Rabiu Kwankwaso and Rafiu Ibrahim. With this development, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) now controls majority in the upper legislative chamber with 57 senators, followed by All Progressives Congress (APC) with 49 lawmakers, All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) one and two vacant seats, occasioned by the death of Ali Wakili (Bauchi State) and Bukar Mustapha (Katsina). This was against the previous political arrangement where APC dominated the the Senate with 64 senarors, as against PDP’s 42 and APGA one. A mild drama ensued when the Senate Minority Leader, Goodwill Akpabio (PDP, Akwa Ibom State) refused to address Ahmad Lawan (APC, Yobe State) as Senate Leader but as ‘distinguished colleague’. Reacting to the defection after the announcement, Lawan said there was no need for lawmakers elected on the party’s platform to cross-carpet, adding that whatever crises the party is going through would be resolved. He said: “The APC, our party certainly has its own internal challenges. But as a political party we all know how so much effort by so many stakeholders to address the issues that bedevil this party. “The disagreements do not translate into fictionalisation. I therefore feel that our senators of the APC stock do not have to move to any other party. “I also believe that because the issues are under serious discussions by the major stakeholders of this party. “I will urge that the announcement be quarantined and contained and address the issues. Very seriously, this matter should be stepped down until we exhaust all the opportunities”. Addressing newsmen after a meeting of APC Caucus, Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan claimed that despite the defection, APC remains the majority with 52 senators. He gave the number of PDP senators as 42, African Democratic Congress (ADC) three, APGA two and two vacant seats. Curiously, he listed PDP lawmakers like Hope Uzodinma, Sunny Ugouji who are yet to formally announce their defection on the floor of the Senate as well as Joshua Dariye who is currently serving 14 year jail term as its members. The Senate also adjourned plenary till September 25, 2018.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 