The share market debut of Xiaomi this week in Hong Kong has cast a lengthy shadow over the listing prospects for other Chinese tech groups and the boom in private valuations enjoyed by the sector. Xiaomi, which debuted at half the $100bn valuation it originally sought, illustrates the risks surrounding the great China tech boom. As companies enter the public realm, sky-high private valuations face a test. Some investors already have reservations about the prospects for Meituan-Dianping, which started life as a kind of Groupon, and ride-sharing service Didi Chuxing. Among prospective listings are two lithium companies, Tianqi and Ganfeng, each seeking $1bn, Nio, an electric vehicle specialist, aiming for $2bn, Shanghai Tasly Pharmaceutical seeking $1bn, while WeLab, a financial tech outfit, hopes to raise $500m. The massive queue of tech companies planning to list in Hong Kong in the next few months, with giants such as Ant Financial close behind, comes as liquidity in China is tightening. The recent reserve rate cuts in China have not done enough to counter an overall tightening of monetary policy. The cost of funds for investors has risen as much as 2 percentage points. “The euphoria around China tech is clashing with the reality of deleveraging in China,” said one major tech investor. “Valuations have been driven by too much money.” Another reason for investors becoming far more selective about the bulging initial public offering pipeline reflects how many recent tech listings in Hong Kong, such as ZhongAn Online and PingAn Good Doctor, are trading about 23 per cent and 17.5 per cent below their respective offer prices. “Neither the Hang Seng index nor the Hong Kong market is about the new economy,” said Eddie Tam, the chief executive of Central Asset Investments in Hong Kong. “Hong Kong needs new blood. But only at the right price.” For many investors such as Mr Tam, Xiaomi, even at a valuation of $50bn, is too expensive, a reflection of the greed of both the entrepreneurs and their backers. “The main problem is the venture capital game has been too easy,” he added. “They leave no upside for the public market investors. If they pushed down the valuation, it would improve sentiment in the public market.” Another reason for Xiaomi’s disappointing listing at a price of HK$17 — it ended the week up 26 per cent at $21.45 — was the absence of profits. Investors in the public sphere viewed it as a low-end smartphone maker whose story was more about India than China; a company that could only list in Hong Kong because it received a waiver from rules requiring three years of profits. The lack of profitability could spook the impending listings of both Meituan-Dianping, whose founder Xing Wang seeks a $60bn dollar valuation, and Didi. Meituan is seen listing in the second half of the year, while Didi is expected early in 2019. Still, those companies with a better or simpler story, such China Tower with a sole Hong Kong listing, are faring better. And their prospects improve markedly when they have strong backing from a powerful sponsor or plan a listing in New York, such as Tencent Music. Many investors are optimistic about the prospects for Tencent Music, which is seeking a valuation of $30bn, a figure that reflects real demand. Shares had already been exchanging hands at that valuation in the grey market for secondary trading, said one Tencent board member. The music-streaming arm of Tencent also has the strong support of the group. But, above all, Tencent’s prospects reflect the depth of the New York market. Despite all of Beijing’s vaunted desire to bring home the listings of its national tech champions and their offspring, “The Nasdaq of China is not Shenzhen or Shanghai,’’ said Mr Tam. “The Nasdaq of China is still New York.”