Nigerian banks on Friday complied by debiting the accounts of customers who participated in the first foreign exchange auction conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Friday.
The CBN on Friday, July 20, 2018, flagged off its intervention in the sale of foreign exchange in Chinese Yuan (CNY), signalling the consummation of the Bilateral Currency Swap Agreement (BCSA) signed with the People’s Bank of China (PBoC) on April 27, 2018.
BusinessDay also gathered that the CBN has debited the current accounts of the dealer banks and would announce the result of the auction this week.
Isaac Okorafor, CBN’s acting director, corporate communications department disclosed that the sales shall be through a combination of spot and short tenored forwards. He added that the exercise, which shall be Special Secondary Market Intervention Sales (SMIS) retail, would be dedicated to the payment of Renminbi denominated Letters of Credit for raw materials and machinery and agriculture.
He explained that the bids were on Spot FX basis as the Authorised Dealers’ accounts with the CBN would be debited in full for the Naira equivalent of the USD bid amount, he advised customers that were not willing to accept the settlement terms not to participate in this Special SMIS – Retail.
Analysts see this as welcome development saying the yuan auction will help to ease pressure on the dollar.
“This is a positive move towards reducing pressure on the greenback. Though, we don’t anticipate any major appreciation of the dollar in the near term, we expect this new policy to reduce operational bottlenecks as well as lower transaction cost for imports,” Ayodeji Ebo, MD, Afrinvest Securities Limited told BusinessDay on phone.
“If the CBN sustains the Yuan auction, we expect to see a reduction in the demand for the greenback in the medium to long term amidst capital inflow reversals from FPIs leading to further stability of the dollar. This may increase the level of transaction with China in the long run but we do not foresee moderation in price of goods and services from China in the near term,” Ebo said. China is Nigeria’s biggest trading partner after the U.S., with volumes between the two totalling $9.2 billion in 2017, according to Bloomberg data.
Nigeria runs a deficit, importing $7.6 billion of goods including textiles and machinery from China and exporting just $1.6 billion, mainly oil and gas.
“It is a positive development in our exchange rate because the pressure on the Dollar should reduce based on the volume of the yuan. The volume of yuan that can be met via that auction will not be demanded again at the dollar window,” Ibrahim Tajudeem, Head of Research, Chapel Hill Denham said.
According to Okorafor, the CBN would also not be applying the relevant provisions of the Guidelines which equally provide that “Spot FX sold to any particular end-user shall not exceed 1% of the overall available funds on offer at each SMIS session”.
Speaking on the bid period, he said authorised Dealers were requested to submit their customers’ bids from 9.00 am to 12.00 pm on Friday July 20, 2018, adding that bids received after this time would be disqualified.
Okorafor further explained that there would be no predetermined spread on the sale of FX Forwards by Authorised Dealers to end-users under the Special SMIS-Retail, adding that authorised Dealers would be allowed to earn 50 kobo on the customers’ bids.
He disclosed that forward bids would be settled through a multiple-price book building process and would cut-off at a marginal rate to be disclosed after the conclusion of the Special SMIS – Retail process.  Hope Moses-Ashike & Bunmi Barley