Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Tunde Balogun, has denied the existence of any faction in the party in the state, stressing that the party was united ahead of the 2019 general elections. Balogun whose victory is still being challenged in the court by the Fouad Oki-led faction of the party in the state after emerging the state chairman in a controversial state congress held last month, stated this Wednesday at an empowerment programme organised by a member of the  House of Representatives, representing Kosofe Federal Constituency of the state, Rotimi Agunsoye. He expressed hope that APC in the state would continue to wax stronger urged all aggrieved members to seize the opportunity to reconcile with the party. He pointed out that APC in the state was not fighting any member. “I want to use the opportunity to say this that APC in Lagos is one and not factionalised. I, therefore, call on aggrieved members to come forward and reconcile with the party because the party is not at war with any of them,” the chairman said. Balogun called on party members to ensure they go out and register with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the on-going registration exercise, saying they would only be able to vote come 2019 provided they registered and obtained their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs). Also speaking at the event, a leader of APC in Lagos East Senatorial District, Adebayo Osinowo aka Pepper, denied recent media report of a  rift between him and the state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode or between the governor and leaders in the zone, declaring that all the party leaders were solidly behind the governor’s second term ambition. Osinowo, who is a sitting member of Lagos State House of Assembly, argued that the state had three senatorial zones where each zone had produced governor that served for eight years each, excepting Lagos East that was yet to serve its first four years through the incumbent Ambode. “I am not fighting Governor Ambode. All that was being said about me fighting Ambode is a lie, such rumour was not strange Nigerians is currently witnessing “season of lies.” He commended Governor Ambode for his giant strides in the last three years, saying that the governor had successful built upon the foundation laid by his predecessors and, therefore, deserved a second term in office.