Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has said that Nigeria will stop importing rice into the country within the next one year owing to the Federal government interventions in rice production.  Osinbajo also added that the country will be self sufficient in tomato paste, millets and other grains production.
“We only import 2 percent of rice into the country presently and this is because we are funding agriculture and production of rice locally,” he said.  He noted that Nigeria was spending $5 million yearly on the importation of rice before the FG government intervention programme to boost local rice production.  According to him, today, only two per cent of rice consumed here are imported while the remaining 98 per cent are locally produced, since we came to power, we have been funding agriculture and encouraging our farmers across the country so as to be self sufficient in food production.
The Vice President while addressing youths at a town hall meeting in Ibadan stated that such was achieved through the current administration’s policy in agriculture aided by the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme(ABP).  Osinbajo stated that the nation’s agricultural sector has improved tremendously, while maintaining that one of the goals of the present administration is to ensure that all Nigerians have food in their table at the appropriate time.  He noted that this necessitated the home grown school feeding which is responsible for the feeding of 8.2 million school children in a day.  “Malnutrition is one of the problems among children, that is why, we said no child should go hungry, we are feeding 8.2 million school children in all the states where we are implementing the program in a day and in Oyo state, in all the primary schools across the state, we are feeding 230,000 primary school children in a day,” he said.  While saying that milling of rice is one of the problems noted that government is working on creating more warehouses and agro allied chains.  He however said that government will create more centres where serious agriculture are taking place in the country. He identified transportation as one of problems of movement rice and other farm produce to other parts of country stressing that was why locally produced rice is still expensive.  “Transportation is still the problem; moving rice from say Kebbi to Oyo State or Lagos and other area will be more expensive,” he added.