A survey by BusinessDay revealed the reasons why Nigeria occupied the 7th position among the worst countries at converting economic growth into wellbeing for citizens.
Reasons include the country having the highest level of out of school children, high mortality rate, one of the countries with highest unemployment rate in the region, with high volume of extremely poor people and declining purchasing power of its citizens.
Johnson Chukwu, CEO, Cowry Asset Management Limited said that in terms of education that the country has highest level of out of school children that could have negatively affected the country’s rating. “Nigeria has one of the highest unemployment rate in Africa about 18.8 percent in Q3 2017.We have one of the highest infant mortality rate in the world. In infrastructure our global rating is not worth celebrating,” Chukwu said.
Meanwhile, the current ranking for Africa’s largest economy was disclosed in a recent 2018 Sustainable Economic Development Assessment (SEDA), which was put together by Boston Consulting Group (BCG), a global management consulting firm that measures how well countries convert GDP growth into improved well-being for its people.
The survey ranked Africa’s most populous nation 145th position out of 152 countries scoring 26.3 over 100 making it the world’s 7th worst at converting economic growth into wellbeing for citizens.
The country performed badly in terms of the ten indicators used by the SEDA index which was infrastructure, income, education, health, environment, governance, civil society, income equality, employment and economic stability.
In the ten indicators, the country scored 6.9 in the income indicator, 80.9 in Economic stability, 58.4 in employment, 22.9 in health, 17.1 in education, 19.6 in infrastructure, 27.5 in equality, 21.0 in civil society, 26.6 in governance and 57.9 in environment.
“The fact that the number of extremely poor people account for 45 percent of the population will be a major negative in assessing the country’s SEDA. So with those scores I think the country’s weight would have been dragged down drastically,” Chukwu added.
In the income indicator, the country per capital income declined from $3,268 in 2014 to $1,994 in 2017 and International Monetary Fund (IMF) thinks it may further worsen in the coming years. The country’s current unemployment rate is 18.8 percent, from National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and nearly ten per cent of new-born deaths in the world last year occurred in Nigeria, the third highest in the world according to World Health Organisation (WHO).
Over 10.5 million children are out of school, according to UNESCO which is the highest anywhere in the world and the value of Nigeria’s infrastructure stock is between 20-25 per cent of GDP which is low when compared to an average of 70 per cent for peer emerging market countries like South Africa, which is about 87 per cent, according to IMF. While a trend analysis by BusinessDay indicates that this ranking represents marginal improvement over the course of five years but provides a sad commentary of Nigeria’s economic development. The country’s total score went from 24.2 in 2013 to 24.9 in 2014, 25.0 in 2015, 26.0 in 2016 and 26.3 in 2017. “It is not something to cheer about. It is still below average and this shows that the government still has a lot to do. They need to put the right policies and framework in place that will attract private investments to really push us higher than this,” Ayodeji Edo, managing director, Afrinvest Securities limited said. In Sub Saharan African countries category (SSA), countries like Mauritius ,Botswana, Ghana, South Africa and Kenya did better than Nigeria by scoring 60.1, 44.3 40.0 ,37.6 and 34.5 respectively in 2017. Ebo said of the countries with better ranking, “They have the right policies in terms of ease of doing business. And also in terms of political stability or opportunity they are also more advanced so as such they have friendlier environment and a lot of private participation.” Analysts say such economic performance indicators are important to help countries assess how well they are doing. “I find SEDA, and similar assessments as a breath of fresh air as their increased use would lead to a rethink on development approach of countries and would also keep policy framers and those in elected offices to account, Wolemi Esan, Partner, Energy and Infrastructure at Olaniwun Ajayi LP told BusinessDay.  BUNMI BAILEY 