In November 2014, the United Nations instituted the World Youth Skills Day aimed at creating more awareness of and dialogue on the importance of technical, vocational education and training and the development of other skills ideal to both local and global markets. The intent is to reduce unemployment and underemployment among the youth in all ends of the world and throw light on youth skills development as well as underline the vital need for marketable skills. In celebration of World Youth Skills Day, Poise Nigeria organised and held an event on Monday, June 16, 2018, to raise awareness on the importance of youths developing skills for jobs. The event themed, ‘Improving the Image of Technical and Vocational Education and Training’, had in attendance Fred Nduka, general manager, human resources, Challarams; Asher Adeniyi, managing director – PoiseGFA; Mobolaji Akinkugbe, national coordinator, Next Economy Programme, SOS Children’s Villages; Nonye Cally-Bechi, deputy managing director, Poise Nigeria, and Femi Obidare, managing director at Gidijobs Nigeria. These resource persons enlightened the participants on various topics centered around the theme. In attendance were beneficiaries of the Skills Development Programme run by Poise Nigeria with the support of Oxfam Nigeria. These programmes are the Career Kickstart Employability training and Ekobits ICT Academy, where graduates are polished for the marketplace and under -privileged teenagers/youths from vulnerable communities receive ICT training and education respectively. With Poise Nigeria’s renowned contribution in the area of employability, learning and skills development, the beneficiaries were full of thanks as they learnt from the wealth of knowledge and experience of the guest speakers on practical steps to take to advance their career and life. Light was also shed on the kind of skills youth require to operate in future economies and to become drivers of an ecologically friendly future. Participants said the event was timely in aiding their personal and career choices, stressing that they were better equipped to acquire more skills as well as make use of already acquired ones in improving themselves.  ODINAKA ANUDU