President Muhammadu Buhari has reacted to the defection of All Progressive Congress ( APC) lawmakers to the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP) describing it as expression of freedom of choice, even as he expressed his willingness to work with them, irrespective of party affiliations The President in a statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, expressed total commitment to the values of democracy, freedom of choice as well as total willingness to work with all members of the National Assembly, irrespective of their political party, for the benefit of the nation. The President while reacting to the developments Tuesday morning at the National Assembly, noted that none of the defecting federal lawmakers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) had any specific grievances against him or the government he leads; neither did he harbour anything against any of them. “As the saying goes, all politics is local. We understand that some of the distinguished and honourable lawmakers have issues with their home states, especially on zoning which bars some of them from seeking another term in their constituencies,” he said. He noted that the APC had done its utmost to stop the defections, the President commended the leadership of the party for relentlessly working for its unity and ensuring success in the upcoming elections. President Buhari assured members of the APC of his total support and urged party faithful not to despair but to see the defections as a seasonal occurrence that happens on election eve. He expressed confidence that no harm or injury will be done to the party and its aspirations by the movements. According to the statement “ President Buhari wished all the decamped members the best in their future undertakings.” This is just as the Presidency Tuesday, said it has taken note of the orchestrated campaign against President Muhammadu Buhari each time a Very Important Person (VIP) is invited by the law enforcement agencies, in the discharge of their legitimate duties and functions. Garba Shehu in a statement, said the aw of the land is intended for all, not for the poor or those at the lowest rungs of the social ladder. He described it as “odd, strange and bizarre that while ordinary citizens can be called up to answer questions or be interrogated, the VIP cannot be questioned without the annoying insinuations of partisanship, persecution or outright politicization. “This country cannot achieve development in peace when important cases are viewed through a political prism and the law is considered as being applicable to some, and not applicable to others. “The workings of law enforcement agencies are set out in the constitution and the laws of the country. If they worked at the discretion of past presidents, who decided who to question and who to detain, Nigerians should get used to the fact that this President is different. President Buhari does not and will not influence or interfere with cases. He noted that the constitution clearly directs law enforcement agencies to promptly report and investigate any actual or potential infringement of the law and also initiate proceedings against all those involved. “This President is not the one who directs them on what to do. Presidency also explained that President Buhari does not stand in the way of law enforcement either. “Under our constitution, he has no powers to stop the investigation of anyone or institution. When they are set to investigate anything and anyone, the best friend of the law is the one who lets them do their work. “The President’s constant refrain is that he will not tolerate any form of illegality including corruption and the law enforcement agencies have been given complete freedom to identify and bring all culprits to justice. His instructions to them are very clear: Anyone with a case to answer or found guilty should not be spared. He advised accused persons to approach the courts to plead their innocence rather than going to the public to plead persecution. “The country is better served when the law enforcement agencies are allowed to do their work and we must stop the actors of this dangerous game of politicizing law enforcement.”  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 