Despite widespread condemnation of obvious segregation and deliberate marginalisation of some geo-political zones of the country made manifest in the lopsided appointments of President Muhammadu Buhari, it appears that the administration has no apologies to anybody over its action. The recent appointments into boards of agencies and parastatals bear eloquent testimony of the policy of excision which the Buhari administration is orchestrating. South East senators are set for a showdown on Tuesday with their Northern colleagues, as the Senate Committee on Federal Character is expected to submit its report on the alleged lopsided political appointments by President Muhammadu Buhari.  The probe followed a Point of Order raised by Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu who expressed concerns that the President’s appointments were skewed in favour a section of the country.  His Point of Order came shortly after Senate President Bukola Saraki read a letter from President Buhari seeking approval for the appointment of nominees for the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA).  According to the Deputy Senate President, the President’s lopsided appointments violated Section 14 (3) of the 1999 Constitution which provides that: “The composition of the Government of the Federation or any of its agencies and the conduct of its affairs shall be carried out in such a manner as to reflect the federal character of Nigeria and the need to promote national unity, and also to command national loyalty, thereby ensuring that there shall be no predominance of persons from a few State or from a few ethnic or other sectional groups in that Government or in any of its agencies”.  President Buhari hails from Katsina State in North West Nigeria.  BDSUNDAY examined the President’s correspondences to the Senate between Wednesday, July 18 and Thursday July 19, and observed that out of 31 political appointments, the South East and South-South geopolitical zones received three nominations each as against 18 to the North and seven to the South West. The three political appointees for the South East include: Josef Okoloagu (Enugu State) as member of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC); Ejor Chukwuemeka (Anambra) Commissioner, Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) and Loretta Aniagolu, Executive Director, Governing Board of the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA).  The three South-South nominees are: Festus Keyamo (Delta), member NDIC; Joe Poroma (Rivers), Commissioner FCSC and Simon Etim (Akwa Ibom), also a Commissioner in the Federal Civil Service Commission. Also, the seven South West appointees are: Tunde Lemo and Vincent Kolawole, Chairman and Executive Director of FERMA, respectively; Olabode Mustapha (Ogun) Chairman NDIC; Muiz Banire (Lagos) Chairman, Governing Board of Assets Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON); Adewale Adeleke (Ondo), member NDIC; Iyabode Odulate-Yusuf (Ogun), Fatai Adebayo (Oyo) both commissioners in FCSC. By the same token, the 18 political appointments in respect of those in FCSC are: Bello Ingawa (Katsina) Chairman; Moses Ngbale (Adamawa); Waziri Ngurno (Borno); Bello Mahmoud (Jigawa); Ahmed Sarna (Kebbi); Shehu Danyaya (Niger); Ibrahim Mohammed, (Kaduna) and Aminu Sheidu (Kogi).  Other northerners nominated as members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission include: Abba Ali (Katsina) and Mohammed Sagir (Niger).  Also, northerners nominated on the Governing Board of FERMA by the President include: Nurudeen Rafindadi (Managing Director), with Buba Silas Abdullahi, Babangana Aji; Shehu Abdullahi; Mujaidu Dako as Executive Directors.  This is not the first time the issue of appointments by the President has come under scrutiny.  In October 2017, BusinessDay reported that 81 out of the President Buhari’s 100 political appointees were northerners. Specifically, the report indicated that Buhari’s appointments were mainly from the North East, North West or North Central.  However, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, dismissed the report and claimed that the administration was committed to serve Nigerians well irrespective of tribe and religion.