As part of the efforts to restore the image of Golden Guinea Breweries after about 16 years of inactivity, the company has initiated legal proceedings in the Federal High Court sitting in Port-Harcourt against AB InBev’s Pabod Breweries, for what Golden Guinea described as infringement on its trademark. The case was initiated in 2016 soon after preparations were in top gear by management of Golden Guinea Breweries to resuscitate its business. Golden Guinea prayed the court to declare that it (Golden Guinea) is the sole proprietor of the trademark “Eagle Stout” which was registered as No 21153 in Class 32 at the Nigerian Trademarks Registry, Abuja and as such it has the sole entitlement to the exclusive use of the trademark for the production, sale and distribution of the product in the Nigerian market. In a suit filed at the Federal High Court, Golden Guinea Breweries’ management is seeking the court to compel Pabod Breweries to pay N10 billion damages plus N10 million “aggravated damages” as contained in suit No PHC/PH/CS/647/2016 at the Federal High Court, Port-Harcourt. In addition to that, the Umuahia-based brewery prayed the court to order for the destruction of all infringing Eagle beer products possessed by Pabod either for sale or distribution. Eagle Stout and Golden Guinea lager were Golden Guinea’s main brands in the 1960s alongside foreign brands such as  Bergedorf premium lager and Bergedorf malta, a non-alcoholic brand, both of the Hamburg-based German brewers, Holsten Brauerei AG. However, Pabod Breweries alongside Intafact Breweries in Onitsha have since been merged with International Breweries, thus consolidating the position of the latter hitherto being the only listed firm among the three entities. This move was facilitated by AB InBev, the world’s largest brewer. Consequently, of the 8.6 million ordinary shares of International Breweries, AB InBev indirectly holds 75.1 per cent equity stake (i.e. directly held through SABMiller Nigeria Holdings BV with 47.4 per cent and Brauhaase International Management GMBH with 27.7 per cent). Against this backdrop, therefore, the BusinessDay Research and Intelligence Unit’s (BRIU) analysis spotlights the market, reputational and other sundry risks the litigation brought against Pabod Breweries by Golden Guinea Breweries will have on AB InBev’s drive to boost top and bottom line growth in a fiercely competitive Nigeria beer market.   Source: Bloomberg, BRIU History repeats itself Meanwhile, this is not the first time Pabod Breweries has been dragged to court for infringement on product designs or trademarks/logo of rival brewers. In 2008, a case with suit No CA/PH/561/2008 which bothers on infringement on product design was brought before the Federal High Court, Port-Harcourt by Nigerian Breweries(NB) against Pabod Breweries Limited and Anor, a bottling manufacturer for Pabod Breweries. In the suit, NB declared that it maintains proprietorship of the Star Lager beer bottle having being duly registered at the Trademarks and Patents Registry with registration number 7139. NB equally noted that Pabod’s Grand lager beer bottle resembles that of the Star lager beer and therefore infringes on its patent. NB thereafter sought damages of N80 million and an additional damage of N10 million including the directive for the defendant (Pabod) to deliver about 2 million bottles of Grand lager in its possession for onward destruction. However, NB lost the case on ground of failure to prove to the court beyond reasonable doubt that the Grand lager beer bottle design infringes on its brand. NB thereafter appealed the case of which the appellant court upheld the decision of the lower court; NB lost again! What can AB InBev do to savage the situation? BRIU is of the view that should AB InBev’s Pabod Brewery loses the suit and it’s mandated to pay up the damages demanded by the plaintiff (Golden Guinea Breweries), that singular act will chop off revenue by a whooping N1.1 billion which will be quite impactful. However, AB InBev could call for an out-of -court settlement given the obvious intricacies a court case could birth. “I really don’t see this issue dragging and I don’t see it significantly having long term implications for International Breweries. An out of court settlement might be opted for by both parties,” Fola Abimbola, an analyst at CSL Stockbrokers told BRIU. Obinna Dike, an energy and natural resource lawyer stressed the need for AB InBev to weigh the merit of their defence and see how to handle the situation noting that such legal case portrays immense risk for International Breweries. “I will advise they settle out of court because such a case, as long as it remains within the purview of the media and the general public, can damage a company irredeemably,” Dike said. Essentially, it will destroy the already budding public image AB InBev has tried hard to build since it made in-road into the beer market in Nigeria after it acquired SABMiller, the then world’s second largest brewer.  International Breweries Operating Margin  Source: Bloomberg, BRIU  “The worst case scenario is that International Breweries decides to drop the brand name and do a little bit on rebranding and sensitization of consumers on the development. However, it is worthy to note that Eagle Stout is not a major brand of International Breweries,” Fola said. Top brands of International Breweries are Hero lager, Trophy lager, Castle Lite and the recently introduced Budweiser hence revenue derivable from Eagle stout might not really matters even if the court rules for stoppage of production. Since the news came up again recently, investors could be keeping a keen eye on how things play out. Fola however dismissed the idea of panic among the investment community and averred that investors have bigger concerns than the court case at the moment. International Breweries’ top line for 2017 grew by 40.6 per cent to N32.71bn underlined by product expansion offerings to customers and cost management drive. However, growth of bottom line dipped by 21 per cent to N2.9bn in 2017 financial year attributed to exchange rate loss. “The fall in net profit was mainly due to foreign exchange loss incurred on revaluation of the company’s foreign loan facilities occasioned by the devaluation of the naira,” Sunday Akintole Omole, chairman, board of directors of International Breweries Plc said. Earnings per share equally decreased from 81 kobo to 31 kobo.  International Breweries gross Margin  Source: Bloomberg, BRIU