The spate of insurgency in the war-torn North-Eastern states of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe has caused a serious setback in the country’s quest to boost food production as farmers abandon their fields to seek refuge in IDPs, with some running to relatively peaceful states such as Kano, Kaduna and Sokoto states. As a result, the Federal Government renewed efforts to boost farmers’ production has yielded little or no result with population rising rapidly, sparking fears of food security in Africa’s most populous country. “The insurgency in the North-Eastern region is a major setback to our efforts in increasing food production. Before the Boko Haram conflicts, Borno alone contributes 30 percent to the country’s total output for wheat production but with the insecurity there, the country is getting zero wheat from the state,” Saleh Mohammed, president, Wheat Growers Association of Nigeria. “This is the case also with other crops. The insurgency is a threat to government efforts of achieving food security. “Farmers have fled their farmlands in those regions for safety but the government is making arrangement to provide security for farmers in those regions that wants to return to farming,” Mohammed added. Similarly, the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) in its recent country briefs for Nigeria said, “Boko Haram conflict has had a huge impact on agriculture as a result of the large‑scale population displacement and restrictions imposed on agriculture activities, leading to a sharp drop in planted areas in some states, notably in Borno State.” Abdurahaman Modibbo Girei, President, Adamawa Chamber of Commerce and Industry told BusinessDay that most farmers have abandoned their farms and fled, while major borders have been shut owing to high insecurity in the state. “Farmers have deserted their farms and fled to from hostile parts of the state, to less volatile areas,” Girei said. Apart from the Boko Haram insurgency, decades of prolong violent conflicts in the middle belt region of the country between farmers and herders is a threat to the country’s food security agenda. Nigeria loses about $2.3 million (N828 million) annually due to the conflict between farmers and herders, according to a Mercy Crops 2015 report, and states where these conflicts take place lose an average of 47 percent of tax generated internally. “The crisis has implication for the agricultural sector and employment generation. It is a major risk to the growth of the sector,” Muda Yusuf, director general, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said. “This is also a threat to raw materials for industries. The agricultural sector provides the raw materials that feed on industries especially the food and beverage industries. Farmers income will be affected due to the conflicts and when there is no income, there is poverty,” Yusuf said. The disputes have often degenerated into violence in which scores of houses have been burnt, cattle slaughtered, farmlands destroyed and people killed, all of which constitute economic loss to the country. In 2016, 55 hectares of cassava farmland belonging to Oamsal Nigeria Limited were destroyed by herdsmen. The firm lost N23 million, yet no arrests were made and no compensation was given. In Adamawa, the tension occasioned by recent reprisal attacks has emptied neighbouring villages, such as Imburu, Pullum and Kwapuke, as many villagers have abandoned their homes, seeking safety elsewhere due to rumours of an impending attack by herdsmen. The few who are left behind appear braced for a reprisal. In Benue, Nigeria’s largest food-producing state, over 5,000 deaths have been recorded in four years, affecting communities such as Agatu, Tom-Atar, Umenge, Akor, Guma, Ayilamo, Turan and Ngambe-Tiev. Other states such as Ekiti, Nasarawa, Kogi, Enugu, Delta, Taraba and Imo have also suffered from numerous attacks. An accurate account of the death toll resulting from herder-farmer violence in Nigeria is difficult to come by due to the lack of a dedicated database in the country, but Global Terrorism Index rated the herdsmen in Nigeria the fourth deadliest terrorist group in the world in 2014.  Josephine Okojie 