An expert, Mr Ismail Olawale, on Wednesday said proliferation of fake agrochemicals and fertilisers were posing threat to agricultural practice in the country. Olawale, an official of National Agriculture Extension and Research Liaison Services (NAERLS) said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. He said that the effect of applying fake agrochemicals to farmlands by local farmers had adverse and ripple effects on human health and the environment. “The major effect of applying fake agrochemicals to farmlands is the implications on human health. “The application of fake agrochemicals and fertilisers also pose environmental hazards. It contributes to the problems of climate change. “When such chemicals are spread on the plant or soil, there is an evaporation mechanism, where some of the chemicals get to the ozone layer leading to adverse effect on the atmosphere.” Olawale said the application of these fake agrochemicals by local farmers could threaten the food security status of the country. “The use of fake agrochemicals could lead to shortage of food in the country thereby threatening our food security status. “The application of fake fertilisers on farmlands also reduces the chances of a bountiful harvest,” Olawale said. The expert called for sensitisation of farmers on the dangers of fake agrochemicals and a joint collaboration between the fertilisers producing companies and local farmers. “There should be collaboration between the local farmers and the manufacturers of agrochemicals to stop the proliferation of these fake produce “Farmers should only patronise accredited dealers of agrochemicals to stop this menace. “They should also come together as a group, link up with the manufacturers to buy agrochemicals as a cooperative society and then resell to the individual farmer. “The manufacturers need to intensify their sensitisation campaign and liaise with farmer groups, provide incentives and end the spread of fake agrochemicals,” he said. 