In Nigeria, the average cow is said to produce about one litre of milk per day, or maybe add an extra half at times. In Rwanda, the case is different, at least now when dairy farmers say they get an average of 20 litres of milk per cow. This is especially so for those who have embraced improved breeds of cattle from the Netherlands, New Zealand, and even South Africa. This feat has been possible through a combination of three factors; the government’s commitment to developing agriculture, determination by individual citizens to run sustainable businesses, and very important; efficiently utilizing bilateral commitments which have been made by foreign governments such as The Netherlands. Nigeria not only enjoys similar commitments from several countries such as the Netherlands, but it does not appear enough is being done to take advantage of these unique, potentially rewarding opportunities. A group of dairy farmers from Rwanda are currently in the Netherlands, understudying best practices and gaining knowledge on how to further improve their operations. The group is in the Netherlands on an exchange visit courtesy of Agriterra, a Dutch organisation which provides support to farmers through advice, developing business plans, exchange visits, training amongst others. The group is in the Netherlands on peer to peer/farmer to farmer learning. Hakizimana Pierre Celestin, chairperson, IAKIB dairy cooperative speaking through an interpreter, explained that his cooperative is able to collect 37,000 litres of milk per day from different areas where they have milk collection centres. They have a vision (and ambitions) to start up a sort of joint venture with a private company. Their milk is currently supplied to a private company called Blessed Dairy, and some of it also goes to Inyange industries, which they say is a milk processing plant of the Rwandan government. This cooperative as part of its visit to the Netherlands is now planning to do beyond simply milking cows and selling off, it also wants to start adding value to the milk produced by dairy farmers, so they earn more money. According to Rwanda’s The New Times, the country produces more than 1.5 million litres of milk per day, but only 18 per cent of this is collected through Milk Collection Centres (MCCs) and just 10 per cent is processed. It would appear production is less of a problem, rather, collection and processing. In Nigeria, the reverse is the case. Local milk companies have to rely on importation to meet the country’s dairy needs. Weather and ability of breeds to survive in Nigeria is often adduced for the inability to achieve better results in dairy. But then, this argument is increasingly less valid on account of cross breeding and varieties which have the right attributes to deliver better yield, and which will also survive in Nigeria. Just like Agriterra has been working with Rwandan cooperatives, one company in Nigeria, is making similar efforts to support dairy farmers in getting more from their cattle. A BusinessDay report last year, explored how Frieslandcampina WAMCO Nigeria has since 2011 been supporting dairy farmers in Oyo state, and since 2014, introduced what has been described as a unique support programme in Iseyin. Many farmers told BusinessDay they have been able to learn cross-breeding from Dutch farmers who came in from the Netherlands, and regularly cross-breeds cows brought in by FrieslandCampina. Experts describe cross-breeding as a method of producing an animal or plant by mating or two different species or breeds. They say that the major advantage of crossbred cattle is that they exhibit the strengths of all breeds from which they descend. In Iseyin where Frieslandcampina is engaging local dairy farmers, productivity is gradually improving but a lot more can be achieved at a national scale if a deliberate, strategic approach is developed to learn from countries that are getting it right. It becomes imperative that conscious efforts are made in ensuring that the interests by foreign governments and organisations to support Nigeria, yield desired (positive) results for the country to develop. The Netherlands government for instance has expressed its commitment to provide support for Nigeria’s agricultural development, aiming to facilitate the creation of new jobs to support the economy, and stimulate economic growth. Robert Petri, the Netherlands Ambassador to Nigeria, has delivered this message a number of times, saying the Dutch mission in Nigeria wants to deepen bilateral relations with the country. They have identified agriculture as the best way to provide support, owing to the Dutch track record in high productivity. Despite being one of the smallest countries by size at 41,543 Km2, it is the world’s second largest exporter of food. It appears all that is left, is for Nigeria to start practical engagements, with countries willing to help the country improve local production capacities.