Edo state government has raised alarm over steady increase in the number of sickle cell patients on list of the centre for past three years. Caroline Omoti, chairman of the Sickle Cell Board, made this known recently during the presentation of Self-care tool kits to people with Sickle Cell by a non-governmental organisation Tonymay foundation in Benin City. According to Omoti, “A total number of patients at the Centre in Benin City, indicates a steady increase in the number of patients from 4,000 to 7,573 between 2014 and 2017.” “The commonest type of presentation was Vaso-occlusive and hyper haemolytic crisis,” she said. The chairman, who commended the donor for the gestures, however appealed for more attention to the centre through allocation of funds, education and research to assist sickle cell patients in the provision of medical care. Also speaking at the event, Andrew Otokhina, chairman Tonymay foundation Sickle Cell Aid, said the donation was part of the foundation’s contributions and investment in the health of sickle cell patients in the state. “Sickle Cell is not a disease but a disorder that can be managed by medical professionals, however I advise sickle cell patients against patronising unqualified medical personnel’s in private hospitals,” he said He further advised that sickle cell patients should not always allow themselves to be dehydrated or fall into malaria crisis and also avoid stress and infection for children in a bid to live a normal life. The occasion, was however used to advise people that are about to get married to go for genotype test before marriage in order to avoid and prevent the increasing cases of sickle cell patients in the society. Meanwhile, sickle cell patients in the state have appealed to the state government for urgent signing of the sickle cell bill recently passed by the State House of Assembly into law. The sickle cell patients, who made the call in the just celebrated World Sickle Cell Day in Benin-City said the bill when signed into law will reduce challenges in accessing medical services in the centre.