ART X Lagos, West Africa’s foremost international art fair, in conjunction with Access Bank, has announced Bolatito Aderemi-Ibitola as the winner of the 2018 edition of the ‘ART X Prize with Access’ which was instituted to recognise and support the best of emerging Nigerian visual art talent. Bolatito was chosen from a pool of several applicants by a jury of 5 renowned artists comprising pioneering artist, Bruce Onobrakpeya; Yinka Shonibare, Turner Prize nominee; Wura-Natasha Ogunji, highly regarded visual artist Honorary Fellow of the University of the Arts, London Sokari Douglas-Camp; and gallerist and Oliver Enwonwu, curator. Access Bank’s collaboration with ART X Lagos stems from a mandate to support and contribute to the development of the art sector in Nigeria by investing in Nigerian talent. The sponsorship of the ART X Prize with Access is a partnership that will celebrate, empower and provide vital professional development for a new generation of emerging Nigerian talent. Tokini Peterside, founder & director of ART X Lagos, remarked: “The extraordinarily high quality of work we received speaks volumes of the potential of the art sector in Nigeria. We are delighted to have the privilege to support the prize winner, Bolatito Aderemi-Ibitola, at this pivotal stage in her career.” “With certainty that this will propel her forward towards a successful future within the African and global art industry, we look forward to unveiling Bolatito’s ambitious project at ART X Lagos 2018 in November. The project will introduce Bolatito to our international audience of critics, collectors and curators from renowned institutions around the world. We extend our heartfelt thanks to Access Bank for their support for this initiative and to our stellar jury for their tireless commitment and generousity to this effort.” Herbert Wigwe, CEO and Group Managing Director of Access Bank Plc opines: “At Access Bank, beyond our vast collection of established artists, we believe that we are also responsible for empowering emerging artists. This is why we continue to support the ART X Prize – to celebrate the ingenuity of Nigeria’s emerging art talent. I can see the recipient of the ART X Prize with Access being the next great artist of our time, endowing us with the potential and the privilege to shape the most relevant art that will come out of the African continent.”