Whether intentional or not, but the truth is that a recent tweet by Sterling Bank Plc is attracting the attention it needs.
The tweet ‘in shooting for the moon, men become stars’ has awakened other banks’ image makers’ centred on guarding their territory. The tweet mimicked identities of some big banks like Access Bank Plc, GTBank Plc, First Bank of Nigeria Limited and Union Bank of Nigeria Plc ‘shooting for the ‘moon’ which represents Sterling Bank identity.
Except GTBank, others could not hold their feelings as shown in their re-tweets. “Heading for the moon without a spacesuit…journey mercies,” Union Bank responded to the tweet that broke the internet.
“We will travel on an imaginary rocket too, if we were a one-customer Microfinance Bank; but with ten million customers and counting, we rather bring the galaxy to you,” Access Bank reacted in a tweet with following hash tag comments which says ‘You Are Worth it; Take Tomorrow; Know Your Elders”.
“What an elder sees while sitting, a child cannot see even if he travels to the moon. …And straight into the trash can” First Bank twitted. First Bank continued with hash tag comment which says ‘Respect Your Elders. You First’.
Many industry analysts did not see the need for the outburst because each bank’s scorecard year and quarterly results speak volume on its industry positions.
For instance, in the financial year ended December 31, 2017, Zenith Bank made the biggest profit in the industry with profit after tax (PAT) in excess of N177billion.
Others in the basket of our select banks include GTBank Plc which recorded N170billion in PAT; while UBA Plc made N78.6billion in full year 2017 profit after tax.
Access Bank full year 2017 PAT stood at N62billion; First Bank Nigeria Group’s profit after tax for the year ended December 2017 was N47.7 billion.
Sterling Bank Plc reported a profit after tax of N8.5 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2017. While many bank customers didn’t see the need for banks to de-market each other, others did not see the reason for such display by the financial institution(s).
“Times have become so hard, they have resorted to eating each other…they used to dine on us, the customers,” said Victor Nze a bank customer following the outburst on the internet.  Iheanyi Nwachukwu 