President Muhammadu Buhari has described the achievements of the Africa Export and Import Bank Afrexim achievements as a demonstration that Africa can create and maintain a world class financial institution. The bank which was formed about 25 years ago had the mandate super charge Africa’s economic base. Buhari, speaking at the bank’s Annual General meeting at the Transcorp Hotal Abuja, Saturday called on African countries to increase support for the bank to achieve its mandates of creating enabling environment for infrastructure inclusive growth. “The 25th Anniversary of the Afrexim Bank clearly demonstrates to the world that Africa can create and maintain a world class organization.Since inception, Afrexim Bank has  grown to become  a global powerhouse for the development, facilitation, promotion and financing of African trade.” “Twenty five years ago, I am sure there would have been doubts as to whether Africans can  truly come together to build something meaningful.  The success of Afrexim  in its 25 year journey has answered this question conclusively” He noted that as part of inclusive growth policy, Nigeria has invested aggressively in agriculture, entertainment and digital economy as part of its efforts to expend economy for inclusive growth. “ I was particularly encouraged by their plans  for inclusive  growth and sustainable development in Africa’s economies. This was the vision of the Bank’s founding fathers. “Our Government has adopted a policy of inclusive economic growth. We are determined to attain this by reducing our over reliance on crude oil. To date, we have invested aggressively in infrastructure to support our growth potential in agriculture and solid minerals. We are also empowering many Nigerian entrepreneurs in the entertainment and digital economies to mention a few. “Our Government stands to enable those who can help themselves but is equally committed to supporting those who can’t. This is why we introduced our Social Investment Program which is changing lives through, school feeding, conditional cash transfers and youth employment, among others. The Nigerian President who noted that Nigeria has great role to play in Africa, said the country cannot stand alone, even as he acknowledged that Nigeria is a trading nation no nation. “In Africa, Nigeria has a very unique and important role to play. We are a vast nation of nearly 200 million people, with diversity of language, culture, natural endowments and aspirations. However what we all have in common is that at all levels, Nigeria is a trading nation. “No nation can survive on its own. Trading is important and the terms of trade are important. Therefore, there is a need to ensure our national interests as well as our regional and international obligations are balanced. Speaking on the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) which the country is yet to sign, the President said he has directed the relevant agencies to consult widely on the AfCFTA. “I directed the relevant agencies to conduct intensive and extensive consultations across the nation on the Continental Free Trade Agreement.  Nigeria is a Federation of 36 States plus FCT Abuja, 774 Local Governments and millions of interested stakeholders who must be consulted with and listened to, in order to ensure an optimum outcome. He declared that significant progress has been made in these consultations, adding that “ the team have met key stakeholders across our six geo-political zones. The responses, according to him, “ have been diverse as would be expected. However, one clear message has emerged which is that any  trade agreement must be both “free’ and ‘fair’. This fairness is achievable and we will work towards it” He commended the management of the bank for successfully leading the bank to success. Rwandan Finance Minister and outgoing Chairman of the Board of Afrexim General Meeting, Ndagijimana Uzziel, in his remarks recalled the stabilizing roles played by the bank in the 2015 and 2016 recession due to fall in global commodity prices to rescue African countries from the economic down turn. During the period Africa Export – Import Bank (Afrexim) was able to play its role by helping to stabilize Africa economy through disbursement of $10.5b that stabilized the economy in Africa. He noted that at the center of the bank’s role in Africa is inter Africa trade which is expected to help in processing of commodities to promote jobs, improve tax base and reduce the migration of Africans to Europe occasioned by lack of employment opportunities, back home. He urged the incoming board to encourage financing of Export processing centers and creation of venture capital funds, amongst others for sustainability Benedict Oramah, President and Chairman of the Board of Afrexim Bank, had earlier in his speech applauded the bank’s 25 years efforts to stabilize the economy of African nations. Oramah while providing the bank’s operational results for the last one year, revealed a dividend of $57m U. S. D , as bank’s income rose to 220m or 34% , over the previous year, while Liquidity was put at $3.2n up by 153% The even witnessed the signing of 750m facility for the Bank of Industry (BOI) Nigeria Provided by the Afrexim bank towards industrialization and export development , as well as 650m loan facility for the Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical industry, this plan is for refining fuel, for a seven year term with five year moratorium period.