Ogawork Limited, a technology and business solution company, has unveiled Ogawork, a virtual job solution platform targeted at revolutionalizing home services by assembling a pool of qualified service providers and connecting them to clients that need their services across Nigeria. The revolutionary home services platform, which offers OgaApp makes it easy to get chores done, connecting customers who need chores completed with self-employed providers who are able to earn money using their skills. Speaking at the unveiling of the platform at the Ikeja corporate office of Ogawork recently, Jim Iyke Esomugha, CEO, Ogawork Limited, noted that Ogawork is the only on-demand home services business, which provides a virtual office support and publicity and pre-defined chores for services providers. He noted that there are over 400 chores available for order through the platform, including popular options like home lesson tutors, personal fitness trainers, house cleaning, lawn mowing, furniture assembly, handyman repairs, junk hauling, barbers among others. “The idea of creating an app is to create comfort, security and give better quality for money.  And that is what OgaApp is about. We are the middlemen between artisans, skilled and service providers. So, we are committed to finding a client an artisan or a service provider closest to where the client lives, we go further than that to make sure all our service providers go through a vetting system in collaboration with the police”, Esomugha said. Explaining how the app works, the CEO said: “Simply identifying your category. You can visit www.ogawork.com to see the entirety of what we provide, you can go to Google Play Store or Apple App Store to download our app and find that category of a certain service provider you are and register. When you register, that makes you are eligible to be call upon to become service provider. We will find you the end users because we have customers who are registered under our profile. For instance, if any of our customers ask for a plumber, we will call and link you up with the customer to go carry out the service”. Esomugha disclosed that the service, which kick off in Lagos runs across the country through the online platform and is also free for the first two months for the first 5,000 subscribers. Assuring on the quality of the service providers and professionalism, Esomugha said the company is mindful of the privacy and security of its clients and hence is very strict on the rules for engaging the service providers. “Over 500 people have applied as service providers between last week and this week, but we have been able to verify only 40 of them”. As well, to ensure seamless payment and in line with the trendy cashless system, Ogawork is partnering Providence Bank and GTBank in the payment, while Ogawork Limited is in charge of the technical services of the platform.