Rather than alter the benchmark lending rates which it had held steady since July 2016, the Central Bank of Nigeria announced on Tuesday that it would encourage large Corporates to issue commercial papers to boost their operating capital as well as encourage banks to lend to the manufacturing and agricultural sectors. Making the pronouncements after the two days Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting in Abuja, CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele said the decisions are what he called ‘heterodox approach’ to reform the market and strengthen flow of credit to the economy. These were the major outcomes of the MPC meeting which voted for the 11th time, to retain the MPR 14 percent, Cash Reserve Ratio at 22.5 percent, Liquidity Ratio at 30 percent and Asymmetric corridor around the MPR at +200 and -500 basis points. “Consequently, credit constraint businesses, particular the large corporates are encouraged to issue commercial papers to meet their credit needs at low interest rate at possibly single digit rates and the CBN may, if need be buy those instruments to complement the efforts of the deposit money banks,” Emefiele stated. “In addition, as a way of incentivizing deposit money banks to increase lending to the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, a differentiated dynamic cash reserve regime would be implemented to direct cheap long term credit at 9 percent with a minimum tenor of 7 years and two years moratorium to the employment elastic sectors of the economy.” The governor said the details of the framework are being worked out by the banking supervision, monetary policy and research departments of the CBN and would be released very soon. “We feel this is novel, it is something that we should give a chance, we know that in past, we had reduced CRR and released liquidity into the market but that was not channeled to the high impact, employment generating sectors like we desired. “And that is why we thought we should approach it through this means. “We believe this would work, because we know that from time to time, monitoring the level of liquidity in the market, rather than the banks use their monies to buy treasury bills, they can put them in these sectors and we would provide the liquidity to fund these transactions as long as they meet these conditions,” the governor assured. He explained that in discussing the economic report presented at the meeting, it was observed that while the prices of crude oil in 2017/18 improved, the monthly allocations to various level of government equally increased, “suggesting that the federal government was not conscious of saving f9r the rainy day.” The CBN therefore advised the fiscal authorities to build buffers especially now that the price of crude oil is relatively high while seeking for a coordinated fiscal, monetary and exchange rate measures to stem the buildup of price pressures. The CBN also called on the federal government to accelerate the settlement of contractual debts and also encourage the banks to ensure strict compliance with regulatory provisions. But reacting to the MPC decisions, Bismarck Rewame, CEO Financial Derivatives Company said the rate retention was highly expected by the market eventhough a rate cut was due but for anticipated inflationary pressures. He however disagreed with the CBN on the new approach wondering how it would work effectively address the liquidity concerns. “To me, this is like Credit rationing and controls of some sort. “I have a problem with that,” Rewane asserted shortly after the decisions were announced. Rewane was of the view that the CBN ought to have taken the bold step of a rate cut since the last three MPC meetings and then begin to normalize now. Addressing the press, Emefiele said the committee in voting for a hold noted that risks to the macroeconomic and financial environment appear fairly balanced, with improvements in output growth and inflation. There was also the MPC consensus that holding policy at the current stance would support growth and further moderate inflation. “The argument in favor of maintaining the current policy stance is to monitor the magnitude of the liquidity impact of the fiscal injections and election related expenditure ahead of the 2019 general elections,” Emefiele stated. Meanwhile , the MPC also strongly considered the option of tightening believing that it would curtail the threat of a rise in inflation even as the injection from the fiscal authorities would still revise the economy with substantial liquidity. “Nowithsanding the decerleration in headline inflation, the current double digit inflation rate remains above the bank’s 6-9 percent target range,” he stated. In addition, the committee is of the view that tightening would help stem the tide of capital flow reversals in the face of sustained monetary policy normalization in some advanced economies. This the committee believes would rein in inflationary pressure and moderate prices to single digit levels, increase real interest rate, build investor confidence with attendant positive impact on capital inflows and further stabilize the country’s exchange rate. On the contrary, the committee was of the view that raising interest rate at this time would weaken consumption and raise the cost of borrowing to investors in the domestic economy. In addition, the fears that a tightening policy would trigger reprising of financial assets by deposit money banks and further constricting to the real sector that would promote non-inclusive
growth without development. Emefiele stressed that in considering the option of loosening, the committee assessed the potential effect of stimulating aggravate demand through lower cost of capital. “The committee however considered its potential relevance taking into the account the expected liquidity injection from the 2018 budget, increased Federal Accounts Allocation Committee disbursement’s and election related spending ahead of 2019 general elections,” he explained. “If this crystallizes, it would exacerbate inflationary and exchange rate pressures as well as return real interest rate into negative trajectory,” he stressed. Moreover, lowering policy rate may not translate to an automatic reduction in market rates due to poor transmission mechanism due to structural rigidities. The committee is also of the view that loosening could reverse the gains already made with reduced importation which has strengthened the current account balance. It would also lower banks’ risk appetite and possible rise in Non-Performing Loans which could negatively impact on the baking industry’s stability. However, the committee noted that the appetite for the public for loosening and concern that holding MPR at 14 percent since July 2016 and considering the dynamic nature of the market, the rate might have lost its signaling* effect on the market, hence dampened market expectations. Inflation forecast for the near term points to further moderation in price level, however the downside risks include the impact of excess liquidity that could arise from the implementation of the N9.1 trillion federally government budget, pre-election spending, anticipated review of salaries and wages, security challenges and monthly FAAC injections. These could boost aggregate demand but would equally expert an upward pressure on domestic prices for the rest of the year. The MPC cautioned that the downside risk to the growth outlook include continued delay in the implementation of the 2018 budget, worsening farmers’ and herdsmen conflict in some parts of the country, continued nonpayment of workers’ salaries and pension in some states, rising Sovereign debt as well as uncertainty surrounding the direction of trade policy including the external demand for Nigeria’s oil.  Onyinye Nwachukwu, Abuja 