Nigerian oil exploration companies are set to benefit heavily from the sustained rally in crude oil prices this year. Brent crude is up around 10 percent this year and 61.6 percent over the last one year.
According to moody investors’ service report, “oil companies will continue to reap the benefits of a partial recovery in oil prices, and also continue to pursue efficiencies and maintain competitive cost structures in order to reap the benefits of higher prices.”
A combination of the crude oil price rally, improved production efficiencies and a series of divestments helped Seplat and Oando cut their net debt position and bolstered profitability last year. With oil prices still elevated, analysts expect that FY 2018 earnings will outstrip 2017 performance.
A manager at one of the top multinational oil companies in Nigeria, told businessday analyst that “when oil prices are down there is a negative effect on oil producing companies resulting in a tensed atmosphere. In an attempt to cut cost, workers are cut and contract that where meant to be done halted, but when oil prices rise there would be a reversal.”
Jubril Kareem, head of energy research, Ecobank Research talking about the effect of oil prices on the performance of Seplat said that the effect of oil prices on the company is very obvious, the performance of Seplat was low in 2016 when the crude oil price was down. The company had a negative Profit after Tax at some point in that period, and now with the rising crude oil price and its production recovering from the Forcados incident the company has had a better performance which has led it to be able to pay dividends in the first quarter of this year to its shareholders.
2017 marked the year of recovery for the oil producers as production cuts by OPEC helped to lift crude oil prices during the year. Even though Oando daily production levels in 2017 dropped to 40,188 boe/day (barrel of oil equivalent) from 43,503 boe/day in 2016, revenue for the company still increased by around N41.7 billion marking a turnaround in the fortunes of the company which had been battling to cut down liabilities which reached almost half a trillion naira in 2015.
Thanks to the uptick in crude oil price, a series of divestments in several joint ventures and debt restructuring, Oando was able to bring down its debt pile by almost 50 percent to around N273 billion.
With crude prices sitting above $70 for most of 2018, analysts expect that Oando will continue to reduce their net debt position and post after tax profits this year.
The capital expenditure of Oando is also likely to maintain an upwards trajectory in 2018 boosted by the recovery in crude oil prices. The cost reduction and production efficiency strategies of Seplat have been remarkable since crude oil prices plummeted in 2014. Seplat has managed to cut production operating expenditure from $10.27 in 2014 to a mere $5.96 in 2017. The company’s bottom line benefited the most from the price surge in crude oil as the firm reported a profit of around $44m in profit before tax from a loss of -$173m in 2016.  Emeka Ucheaga, Omobola Adu, Sobechukwu Eze & Ibidapo David 