National president of Nigeria Cassava Growers Association (NCGC), Segun Adewumi, says the country has the economic potentials of generating about N18 trillion annually from industrial starch.
Adewumi made the remark at the end of a day training of 300 cassava farmers on farm mechanisation and good agricultural practices organised by the Edo State chapter of the association in conjunction with Dizengoff Nigeria Limited in Benin City.
The NCGA boss, who noted that the price of industrial starch was about N350,000 per ton, said if 5 million of the 84 million hectares of arable land in Nigeria were devoted to cassava cultivation, Nigeria could earn double of what it was making from oil from cassava project.
He said by analysis, 5 million hectares at 40 metric ton per hectare would yield 200 million metric tons, while 200 metric tons of fresh cassava would yield 50 million metric tons of starch.
He said industrial items imported into the country yearly, which could be derived from cassava worth over N3 trillion, and pointed out that if 20 percent cassava flour inclusion in bread was implemented it would reduce the import bill on white wheat by N200 billion annually.
He listed the five major cassava industrial derivatives to include ethanol, industrial starch, glucose syrup, cassava flour and sweetener.
According to Adewumi, the products are raw materials to numerous utility industrial items with limitless domestic and export market potentials that can also trigger off massive industrial revolution in the state and the entire country.
He observed that the beauty of the project was the limitless market opportunities for the various cassava derivatives across the world.
Earlier, the state chairman of NCGA, Donatus Imaghodor, said the training was aimed at helping the cassava farmers to know how to increase and improve their crop yields by using right methods techniques that would help them make more money from the same size of farmland with less labour.
Imaghodor said it would also make farming more attractive to the youths and young graduates, as it would afford them the opportunities to be tractor operators, weeds managers, extension officers, fabricators, technicians, transporters, products brander and marketers, sales representatives, among others.
He also added that it would assist the farmers to contribute majorly to the state Gross Domestic Products (GDP) and food basket of the nation.
He however called on the state governor to provide tractors, farm implements and inputs at the various local government councils to enable farm mechanisation easier and possible.