John BipreNdiomu, chairman, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Bayelsa State Council, has been at the forefront of efforts to ensure that civil servants and other classes of workers in the state get their due from the state government. In this interview with SAMUEL ESE, he spoke on issues surrounding the ongoing public sector reforms in Bayelsa State; the role of labour in the forthcoming 2019 general election, among others. Excerpts: My we know a bit about your experience in the labour movement? Actually, I have been in the labour movement for about 25 years or even more and like we normally say, ‘the struggle continues’. It has never been easy and since I became the NLC chairman, that uneasiness, I feel it even the more because immediately I came in, it was just about the time of the recession; and since then, it has been tedious and now the reforms are going on. So, it has not been easy, but then the struggle continues and there is hope as victory is sure How would you describe labour movement in Nigeria? Yes, under true democracy, when the votes really count, it is a tool for political change. The labour union stands as a formidable tool in any democratic system. Do not forget that labour does not just speak for workers only. Labour speaks for the poor masses of this country, and when there are difficult situations, everybody will look for labour. For instance, when there is increase in pump price of fuel, people will say, where is labour? You know, fuel is not just for workers alone, so the world, the people know that labour speaks for them, and they’ll look up to us. Of course, in many countries now, labour is even taking over governance. The truth is that the workers produce the wealth, labour produces the wealth, but then there is a group of people that shares this wealth and in most cases, those who produce the wealth are not part of the sharing process. So, labour still stands the chance of ensuring that governance is being taken over by the right people. I think labour still stands that chance. Some observers say that labour may have been silenced by the political class. What actually is happening? Well, labour is not silent. If you are aware of the things that are happening in this country, you will know that labour leaders have been killed in certain states. Labour leaders have been shot dead and till tomorrow, we don’t know who killed them. So, labour has not been silent and will never be silent. The struggle continues in us and we’ll continue to ensure that the rights of workers and their general wellbeing are assured. What role do you think labourwill play in 2019? Of course, labour will come out. Labour is not a political party, but then it’s a pressure group. Labour will ensure that the right thing is done. First, we’ll ensure that there will be free and fair elections. In fact, in the state, we have a campaign going on right now that every worker should get his PVC. You must get your permanent voter’s card.  You must vote for a government that will favourlabour. That is what we intend to do and am sure that even at the national level, that is what they will do. Do you foresee a situation where the votes will not count even with the PVCs? It’s a very, very serious problem and I think that Nigeria as a nation must correct it. That is one of the most serious challenges and needs to be addressed. If our votes don’t count, then the politicians will continue to do what they like. When the votes count, they will respect the voters and then do the needs of the voters. If we don’t do the needful, we’ll continue to suffer in this country. So, we must make the votes count. And, of course, that is one reason I am happy about the recent pronouncements with the card readers. We have been assured in this country that this time, the card readers will read and they will read well. So, we hope that the votes will count. What is the level of relationship between labour andBayelsa State government? First, I will say that in Bayelsa State, we don’t have companies. It’s a civil service state. We can say that our relationship is cordial although there are always problems between the employer and employee. Those problems are always there. But then, generally, I think we have a cordial relationship. Government has not failed to meet with labour leaders when there are issues, and that has sustained our relationship overtime. But there are allegations of collusion between labour leaders and government in the state.What is the truth? It would have been better if you are specific. In what areas are they saying there is a compromise? If you talk about salary arrears, we had six-and-half months’ salary arrears before now. We have pushed and three and half months have been paid. We agree we have three months pending and we are not relenting. We will continue to mount pressure on government to pay all our salary arrears. The truth is that when the workers pressurelabour leaders we are propelled to work harder. What is your take on the ongoing public sector reforms in the state? Let me clear that. First, yes, there are complaints. If you were in Bayelsa State, you would know there are challenges in the civil service. No doubt about that. There are lots of challenges. There are lots of problematic situations and we have talked with the governor severally on these issues. But I am surprised that people are still saying that. I listened to the meetings in all the local government areas and almost everybody is of the view that it is necessary to carry out the civil service reforms. Basically, let me say that from our understanding, from the understanding of labour, the reforms have been put there to avoid costs, to ensure that the civil service is more efficient and effective. Generally, the reforms are meant to reposition the civil service for higher productivity. That is our understanding. Government has said it repeatedly that the reforms are not meant to sack people. No genuine worker will be sacked. But, for instance, if you have forged a certificate and you are working in the service, it will affect you. And, legally, we cannot stand for you. That is the position and I think it is people like that that are complaining. We have said over and over again if you have a genuine matter, approach the union. Since the certificate verification was done, a lot of people were found wanting. Workers that were earlier implicated in one way or the other that are genuine who complained to labour were reverified and cleared. There is always a second chance for you if you are sure you are not guilty. There was also a recent reduction of steps in some ministries. Again, we are saying that if you know you did not manipulate your steps, your increase in steps – because it is the same civil servants that are writing. Someone who started work with you is now higher than you and you complain. So, there is need to do those things. But, again, let me say by the end of the reforms, the fallout of the reforms, the outcome of the reforms, we are hoping that there is going to be steady promotion, our annual increments will continue as they used to be, our salary arrears will be paid, promotions will come. In fact, there will be general staff motivation. That is our hope and that is the direction we are seeing the reforms. The reforms are to ensure that there is higher productivity in the civil service. Advice to colleagues and Bayelsans Well, it is hopeful. Very soon this darkness will come to pass and there will be light in this state. I am very sure, very, very optimistic that we’ll overcome all these difficulties. I am very, very sure that our salary arrears will be paid before the end of this government, this tenure. I am very, very sure that our promotions that are already going on – the promotion exercises are going on, we’ll have them and even our annual increments. There’s going to be staff training and retraining. That is my expectation. That will be the outcome of the reforms in this state. I wish that every worker should be dedicated, should be hardworking. Our performance should be high and we need the support of every worker. On my own part, we’ll not betray you, we’ll not betray the workers of this state, but we’ll continue to do that which is best for them and we will do it in our own way. Finally, workers should make good use of the health scheme (BHIS) and I want to assure you that the workers that were reverified and cleared will be paid very soon. Solidarity Forever!