The federal government has said that it plans to provide $55 million upfront grant/viability gap funding to finance start-up capital and pay commitment fees for aircrafts to be leased for initial operations in Nigeria Air and deposit for new aircrafts whose delivery will begin in 2021. The heavily discussed $8 million pre start-up fee is also included in the $55 million investment.
After the first year of operation, the government will do an initial public offer (IPO) on the Nigerian Stock Exchange subject to approval from Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
At launch date, FG will own 100 percent stake in Nigeria Air but plans to sell up to 95 percent stake in the company through the IPO. Majority of the shares will be sold to Nigerians and some strategic investors. Nigeria Air requires $300m which is the entire airline cash flow funding requirements over the next 3 years and the airline promoters have said there are on-going plans to raise this fund either through equity or debt.
The cash flow estimates contains a 20 percent buffer that was baked into the assumption that the airline may suffer an operating loss in its first year due to competition and need to build a brand.
The assumption that Nigeria Air will only make a loss in its first year of operation seems more like wishful thinking than plausible expectation as many airlines around the world have barely managed to be profitable in the past few years especially airlines in Nigeria which have struggled with significant losses and mounting debt.
Although Nigeria Air will be a welcomed addition to NSE main board, the promoters of the new airline will have an uphill task convincing investors that deploying capital in a thin margin airline business during a period of rising jet fuel prices and slow economic growth in Nigeria is a good idea.
Airlines have a notorious reputation of multiple bankruptcies, excessive financial and operating leverage, volatile jet fuel prices and very thin profit margin. This dynamic and usually unfavourable structural makeup of the airline industry makes investing in commercial airlines highly risky for rational investors.
To convince investors to take the risk, investors must be convinced that they are buying into the new airline at a big discount to the value of investing in other African government established airlines.
According to John Ojikutu, CEO at Centurion Security and Safety Consults, there are currently seven government owned airlines in Africa. They are Kenya Airways, Ethiopian Airways, Royal Air Maroc, South African Airways, Rwandair and Tunisair established in Kenya, Ethiopia, Morocco, South Africa, Rwanda and Tunisia respectively. Excluding Kenya Airways, Rwandair and Tunisair, the government owns 100 percent stake in the other four national carriers. However, since the government own 99 percent of Rwandair, the company is not publicly traded and is dominantly controlled by the government. Kenya Airways and Tunisair are both publicly traded companies and as such are useful in determining a fair value estimate for Nigeria Air. Kenyan government own a minority stake of 48.9 percent in their national carrier. Kenya Airways has a market capitalization of around $782m boasting a fleet of 39 planes which cover more than 50 destinations. On the other hand, Tunisair has a market capitalization of around $23.7m with a fleet of 29 aircraft that cover 101 destinations. While the average age of the fleet owned by Kenya Airways is 6.5 years, the average age of Tunisair planes is 16.2 years which may explain the premium investors are willing to pay to invest in Kenya Airways rather than Tunisair. This gives Kenya Airways a market cap to fleet value of 20.1 million and Tunisair a market cap to fleet value of 0.82 million thereby producing an industry average of 10.4 million. With Nigeria Air set to start with just 5 planes the appropriate enterprise value for the company ought to be around $52 million when you multiply the industry market cap to fleet average with the number of planes that will be available to Nigeria Air at launch. Even when we adjust for the 20 aircrafts expected to be under Nigeria Air in the next 5 years, we obtain an enterprise value of around $208 million. This means that even after around $197.6 million worth of shares is sold to the general public (in exchange for 95 percent equity) to raise capital to fund two years of company operations, Nigeria Air will still have to raise another $47.4 million through debt to fund year 2 and year 3 company operations. As is the norm for airline carriers, Kenya Airway has been posting losses annually since at least 2015. This makes the minister of state for aviation, Sen. Hadi Sirika remark that Nigeria Air will be profitable in the first three years of operation a seemingly impossible task. If Nigeria Air first year losses are larger than expected due to major economic headwinds in the aviation space, the planned IPO may be very difficult to launch successfully even at a $208 million enterprise valuation which is less than one third the market capitalization of publicly owned Kenyan Airways.  Emeka Ucheaga & Ifeoma Okeke 