Early-stage VC firm, Ventures Platform (www.venturesplatform.com) today announces; Corporate Leaders Fund, in partnership with the US-Nigeria Council (www.usnigeriacouncil.org), continuing its mission of finding Africa’s boldest entrepreneurs and supporting them with smart capital to power growth.  This announcement is coming on the sidelines of the recent Investment and Technology summit held at Silicon Valley to promote Nigeria’s growing tech ecosystem and finding stronger ways to synergise with the Valley’s tech ecosystem players around capital, mentorship and capacity development. The high powered Nigerian delegation of senior policy-makers and young tech ecosystem actors was led by the Nigerian Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, during which the agreement was signed.  Speaking about the partnership, Kola Aina, Founding Partner of Ventures Platform said, “We are really excited about the opportunity to get Nigerian corporations and corporate leaders involved in supporting the inevitable future, and we’re pleased to partner with such an important organization as the US-Nigeria Council to make this journey possible.”  With the participation of select corporate partners, leaders and executives of major Nigerian organizations and members of the US-Nigeria Council, the fund is aimed at backing proven entrepreneurs with domain expertise building innovative startups to solve enterprise challenges. Investee companies will be strategically aligned with objectives of the fund’s corporate backers who are primarily members of the US-Nigeria Council.  The Ventures Platform – USNC Corporate Leaders Fund will target post-MVP stage companies, investing up to $250,000 initially, with the potential to follow on in later rounds. It will give Nigeria’s top corporations the opportunity to invest in the next wave of startups and scaleups that will define the country’s future. Beyond capital, the fund will provide investee companies with access to market and distribution, growth support and partnerships, talent development, technology, and expertise from the fund backers and partners.  USNC Executive Director, Eliot Pence, said “We see the partnership with Ventures Platform as an important step towards USNC’s mission of advancing US-Nigerian commercial relations. The fund will further align the interests of corporations with entrepreneurs and investors. Ultimately, our goal with this partnership is to deepen, diversify and develop the commercial activity in the tech ecosystem and accelerate investor outcomes. We’re thrilled to work with Ventures Platform to advance that.” 