Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader in the House of Representatives has exonerated President Muhammadu Buhari from the recent attempt to impeach Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State. Recall that eight members of All Progressive Congress (APC) had on Monday reconvene from recess and served the Governor an impeachment notice, while the 22 other lawmakers were prevented from gaining access to the Legislative chamber. Gbajabiamila who stated this in a statement issued in Abuja, admitted that the action of the eight members of the Benue State House of Assembly was unconstitutional, illegal and condemnable. “Whilst we agree that the purported impeachment of the Benue State Speaker by 8 members cannot pass the smell test under the constitution, we find it strange and hyperbolic that the PDP caucus in the House in a knee jerk reaction will try to tie the President to same. “In tandem with our party, PDP has been screaming restructuring and federalism to high heavens and one wonders why the same party will now blame the activities of an independent state assembly on Mr President. “As for the police the matter is serious enough and one would expect the PDP members to immediately push for the reconvening of the House so as to probe the exact role played by the police. In legislative work there are procedures to be followed. “We believe it is precipitous and not a proper understanding of the law and legislative procedure to say the PDP would stop the reconvening of the House and passage of the virement with their numbers as this requires only a simple majority, something the APC has in abundance in the House. “It is more befuddling that there seems to be more misunderstanding of the required number to form a quorum. A quorum is 1/3rd of members, again a number our party has in abundance,” the Lagos lawmaker noted. While reacting to recent security threat against the National Assembly, Gbajabiamila argued that some APC members will not hesitate to join their PDP counterparts in challenging the disregard for principle of separation of powers as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution (as amended). “Finally as legislators we believe in the constitutionally enshrined separation of powers and as such rather than look to the President, the PDP caucus should challenge the matter in court. “We are sure it will be a slam dunk based on the prima facie facts before us. They will be surprised that some members of our caucus may join them in this legal pursuit in the sustenance of democracy. “That is assuming as members of the House of Representatives we have locus standi. Which we believe we do. The partisan route is not the way to go,” he noted.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 