The United States companies in Nigeria, ranging from GE to PwC, made N2.6 trillion in 2017 as against N1 trillion reported in 2016, according to a report conducted by the American Business Council (ABC), sponsored by Dow Chemical. The report says that Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) inflows from the US into Nigeria were $1.3bn in 2017. The survey, carried out on 74 American firms, discloses that US firms in the country paid a total of N111 billion in taxes in 2017 as against N34 billion in 2016. However, the 2016 report dealt with only 48 firms, while 2017 was based on the survey of 74 companies. Another interesting aspect of the report is the total spend on training. The US firms invested over N1.6 billion in training in 2017 as against N340 million in 2016. More so, they pumped N1.5 billion into Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) last year as against N217 million the previous year. The report discloses that the CSR programmes embarked upon by US firms in 2017 were in key sectors such as health (provision of medical equipment for primary health centres; medical missions); education (scholarships for university undergraduates); infrastructure ( building of classrooms as well as youth and sports centres), and social intervention (monetary donations to charities, NGOs, community development trust funds). The US companies created over 9,000 direct jobs and 11,000 indirect jobs in 2017, says the report, adding that 52 percent of the firms identified Nigeria as a regional hub for their operations in West Africa. Also, 64 percent of the firms have a local content target, which is reflected on areas such as products, people and supply chain, the report states. “We share in the aspirations of Nigeria,” said Lazarus Angbazo, president of ABC and chief executive of GE Nigeria, at a press conference in Lagos. “We take a long-term bet on Nigeria. Virtually all the companies in ABC have been here for decades and share in the basis consensus of development of Nigeria,” Angbazo said. He stated that American companies in Nigeria were not afraid of the upcoming elections as they shared in Nigeria’s dream regardless of who was president. He further stated that US firms in Nigeria had shown that they were good corporate citizens, based on their level of commitment and expenditure on CSR, adding that GE collaborated with UNICEF in 2017 on the rehabilitation of internally displaced persons (IDPs) in the north-eastern Nigeria. According to Darrell McGraw, vice president of ABC, the major challenges faced by US companies in Nigeria in 2017 were labour issues (poor preparations of school leavers for the labour market), specific industry regulations, local content, as well as crime and security. “US companies are optimistic and bullish in doing business in Nigeria,” McGraw said, adding that there had not been a better time to do business in Nigeria. Margaret Olele, CEO/ executive secretary of ABC, stated that most US firms saw CSR as a strategic plan. Raph Ozoude of UPS stressed the need to train Nigerian graduates in a way that they could be ready for the demands of the labour market.  ODINAKA ANUDU