The House of Representatives on Thursday called for enforcement of appropriate sanctions against pilots or members of crew being under the influence of alcohol or any psychoactive substance while on duty. The resolution was passed following the adoption of a motion sponsored by Taofeek Abiodun Adaranijo, who frowned at the practice of pilots or members of crew being under the
influence of alcohol or any psychoactive substance. In his lead debate, Adaranijo frowned at the breach of the provisions of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations, which prohibit members of crew from engaging in any use of substances while on
duty, noting that such violation of this provision attracts a suspension of the defaulter. “The House is aware that in December 2016, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) suspended the medical certificates of five members of the crew who tested positive to marijuana during a drug-screening test conducted on participants of the Cabin Crew Training Basic Course at the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) Zaria, Kaduna state. “The House is further aware that when the NCAA in May 2017 conducted random tests on 87 personnel from Air Peace, Med-View and Air Traffic Controllers of the Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) as they were about to embark upon flight operations and air traffic control duties, a member of crew was tested positive to a psychoactive substance – Tetrahydrocannabinol (THe) which is known to be the chemical responsible for most of marijuana’s psychological effects. “The House is worried that psychoactive drugs work by manipulating the synapses in-between nerves in the central nervous system thereby distorting thought processes and causing a variety of side effects such as anxiety, psychosis, mood swings, depression and sleep problems- all of which are not suitable to the job demands of pilots/members of crew. “The House also notes that flying as a pilot or member of crew requires the highest level of sobriety and clear headedness, the use of alcohol or psychoactive substances therefore endangers the lives of passengers on board an airplane. On his part, Edward Pwajok, observed that the motion was life saving one and the fact that any personnel can test positive is a
serious issue as anyone could have been in any such compromised
aircrafts. While expressing support for the motion, Oghene Emma (PDP-Lagos)stated that the aviation sector is one that must always be regulated strictly as they represent the image of the country internationally and all Laws must be duly enforced for the
safety of lives. Also speaking, Abdulrazak Namdas, Chairman, House Committee on Media and Publicity observed that the heading of the Motion is too harsh especially if it makes headlines. According to him, the ugly development portrays the nation in a bad light, especially as the motion is preventive and not that drug use is prevalent in the Nigerian Aviation Industry. After robust debate on the motion, the House tasked Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to routinely subject members of crew and pilots to various tests before and after flights to determine their fitness or otherwise to fly The lawmakers also called on the Airline operators to diligently ensure that only sober pilots/members of crew are allowed to fly their planes and this diligence should also extend to the initial period of employment. To this end, the House mandated the Committee on Aviation to liaise with the Federal Ministry of Transportation to ensure implementation of the Resolution.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja