Chris Ngige, Minister of Labour and Employment on Monday has directed the striking staff of the Energy Commission of Nigeria (ECN) to end action as no person or union has the right to query the powers of the President over appointments. Ngige stated this via a statement titled: Stop illegal industrial action,’ issued by Samuel Olowookere, Director of Press, Federal Ministry of Labour & Employment. Olowookere in the statement obtained by BusinessDay, quoted the Minister as saying that it is illegal for a section of the staff members of the Commission to have been on four week strike over the re-appointment of Prof. Jidere Bala as the Director General of the Commission. According to him, “Section 169 &170 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria established the Public Service of the Federation while Section 171(2)(d) of the same Constitution confers on the President, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, the power to appoint the Permanent Secretary in any Ministry of Head or any Extra-Ministerial Department of the Government of the Federation. It is therefore imperative that all unions understand this and be properly guided. “It is similarly important to remind the striking workers that Section 42 of the Trade Unions Act, CAP T14 of LFN, 2004 makes it illegal to subject any person to any kind of constraint or restriction in the course of picketing or strike in an Organization. “The striking workers should therefore allow the non-union members and the re-appointed Director General to go about their lawful business without further molestation or hindrance. “We wish to also warn that if the striking workers fail to heed his wise counsel, Government will invoke all its powers to ensure that Prof Eli Jidere Bala who has been re-appointed as the DG of ECN by the President is protected to assume office accordingly.” The minister further warned the striking workers who were manhandling other innocent workers to stop using unionism as guise for hooliganism, stressing that Government would no longer condone their illegal activities and would not hesitate to invoke the necessary provision of the Trade Unions Act on “No Work, No pay,” if this illegal strike continues.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja