Last week will remain evergreen in the history of Nigeria’s politics. The Nigerian political firmament was so much disturbed as political practitioners engaged themselves in political acrobatics. Although there had been bottled-up emotions and discontent across the country, it was least expected that the polity would be so rattled to a level that conveyed even to the undiscerning that things could take such a drastic turn. Oshiomhole’s threat to Ngige At a time the All Progressives Congress (APC) is desperately in talks with aggrieved members who threatened defection, and at a time a number of its members have already dumped the party, causing serious anguish to some party leaders and the Presidency, Adams Oshiomhole, who only recently emerged the new national chairman of the party, delved into an “unchairmanship” conduct. Oshiomhole was threatening fire and brimstone that he would not hesitate to expel Chris Ngige, minister of Labour and Employment, if he failed to constitute and inaugurate board members for federal agencies’ parastatals under his ministry. Speaking like a militant, Oshiomhole, a former Labour president, said: “If the minister refuses, we will suspend him from the party. We must return to internal discipline. For me, it is the height of mischief for any minister, you cannot purport to be an Honourable Minister and you act dishonourably. Nobody is greater than the party.” “If the President condones disrespect for his office, I will not condone disrespect for the party. They have taken undue advantage of the President’s fatherly disposition. When we expel the minister, we will not prevail on the President that he can’t keep in his cabinet people who have neither respect for his own decisions nor have respect for the party without which they would not have been ministers.” Again, when asked his reaction to the defection of 15 senators and 37 members of the House of Representatives last Wednesday, from the APC to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Oshiomhole committed another gaffe, saying the development meant nothing to him and that he would not lose sleep over it. The APC chairman also bragged about himself being a tested fighter and was ready to deploy the fighting spirit in the present circumstance, wondering why anybody could contemplate going back to the PDP. “I am a tested fighter, I fought them from Edo from zero and I overcame their most powerful godfathers. So, I know what I am talking about, I speak from experience and I will talk, negotiate and persuade but there are core principles that are not negotiable,” he said.  Defection of senators, Reps  Last Wednesday, some form of drama took place at the bicameral legislative house of the National Assembly, when 15 APC senators dumped the party for the PDP and 37 members of the House of Representatives moved out of the party also.  Saraki and Ekweremadu’s residences besieged by security operatives  In the morning of last Tuesday, security agents laid siege to the residences of Bukola Saraki and Ike Ekweremadu, Senate president and speaker House of Representatives, respectively. Analysts said the essence was to prevail the day’s sitting, having got the wind that some legislators had perfected their plans to move en masse out of the ruling party.  IGP insists on invitation of Saraki  The Inspector-General of Police last Monday in a letter he personally signed, had ordered Saraki to physically report to the head of Investigation Team at the Intelligence Response Team in Asokoro Extension in Abuja by 8am Tuesday, July 24. He was invited for questioning over the bank robbery incident in Offa, Kwara State in which over 30 people were killed. Although the Senate president had earlier written to the police boss, stating that he had nothing to do with the robbery when he was first invited last month on the same matter, critics said it was intended to ambush Saraki and to prevent him from making it to the National Assembly on that Tuesday. The Senate president described it as “a mere afterthought which is designed to achieve political purpose.”  Ortom dumps APC  In a dramatic turn of events, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State last Wednesday rejoined the PDP. A week before then, Ortom had announced his planned exit, alleging that the APC had given him a “red card.” He was to later recant after a meeting with Adams Oshiomhole. Last Wednesday, he was said to have been prevailed upon by the youths in the state prevented him from going for a meeting with Abuja, forcing him to declare for the PDP. The angry youths were also said to have yanked off the APC flag on his official vehicle. He subsequently addressed a press conference where he formally declared, brandishing his resignation letter to the admiration of his people.  Dino Melaye arraigned, and kidnapped Dino Melaye, a senator representing Kogi West at the National Assembly was on Wednesday arraigned in an FCT High Court, Apo, on a six-count charge, bordering on attempted suicide; attempt to escape from custody and damage of police property. He denied committing the offences, while Justice Silvanus Oriji granted him bail in the sum of N5 million. The next morning on Thursday, news broke that had been kidnapped by “gunmen”. Melaye is one of the staunch supporters of Senate President Saraki and has been off and on trouble with the Nigeria Police.  Impeachment rumour hovers over Fayose; PDP kicks  Thursday, People’s Democratic Party (PDP) raises alarm over alleged plot to impeach Ayodele Fayose, governor of Ekiti State by the State House of Assembly, which it believe must have been engineered by the APC. Kola Ologbondiyan, national publicity secretary of the PDP, warned APC to stop the joke to avoid some terrible consequences. Ologbondiyan alleged that the plot was part of APC’s effort to gain access into the Ekiti Government House and tamper with documents and evidence of the alleged rigging of the July 14 governorship election. In a statement, PDP said: “The impeachment plot, which is being arranged in connivance with the police, is a recipe for the crisis in the peaceful state. “We are aware that the plot is a desperate bid by the APC to rush into the Ekiti Government House to remove and tamper with documents and evidence confirming the rigging of the July 14 governorship election, ahead of the sitting of the election tribunal. “Having realised that there is no way their daylight robbery at the poll can stand in the court; the APC is now employing all desperate means to subvert the course of Justice. “This explains why a detachment of the police can be hurriedly deployed to besiege the Ekiti State Assembly Complex last night without a formal request by the Speaker, the Clerk or the Sergeant-at-Arms, who is the chief security officer of the complex. “Any resort to underhand measures to impeach Fayose, without the constitutionally required 2/3 of the members of the House, particularly at this time, when the lawmakers are currently on their annual recess, will surely be resisted by our members.”  Banire’s acrimonious nomination The nomination by President Muhammadu Buhari of Muiz Banire, a former national legal adviser to the APC, as chairman Board of Directors of AMCON became acrimonious when Oluremi Tinubu, Olamilekan Solomon and Gbenga Ashafa, representing Lagos State in the Senate, kicked against his confirmation. But Banire said he “will not join issues with them,” as he “does not desperately need a political job to survive.” A faction of the APC in Lagos saw the hand of the National Leader, Bola Ahmed Tinubu, in the mess.  Tambuwal, Sokoto lawmakers dump APC Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal and members of the State House of Assembly said good bye to APC, even as pressure is being mounted on Governor Ahmed Abdulfatah of Kwara State by prominent members in his state to “quit APC now”. All these happened last Thursday.  Zebulon Agomuo 