The average smallholder farmer in Nigeria is by every standard, considered poor. Their largely subsistent farming sees them toiling hard but with very little to show for it. Conversely, in other parts of the world, arduous work is complemented with innovations, particularly good seeds which ensure that farm yields are higher than average, and farmers in those places gradually break free from the cycle of poverty. As Nigeria’s agricultural development is increasingly becoming a subject of interest, it is attracting the attention of both local and foreign players who want to cash in on the renewed diversification rhetoric. However, if poor farm yield is what potential investors will either have to show for their investments, or perhaps, what limits them from getting enough raw materials for production, then the journey to agricultural development may be longer than thought. Frans Ojielu, global financial advisor, ICMG Commodities, wrote in an emailed note, that “the availability of quality seeds is critical to agricultural productivity. This is a critical input and all efforts must be on deck to ensure the availability. The yield per hectare is bolstered by the quality of seeds. The time to maturity is also affected by the types and quality of seeds used which directly affect the economics and cashflow available to agri-businesses. The importance of good seeds is important, not only for the economic wellbeing of the farmers, but also for food security. With an estimated $5 billion food import bill, better yields in Nigeria will imply less importation, while many industries which require agricultural raw materials, will also get the required inputs. However, the problem of seed in Nigeria is multifaceted, with two notable elements. The first borders on dubious seed dealers, who sell fake seeds, at times ordinary grains, to unsuspecting farmers as hybrid. This experience discourages many farmers who have used such seeds from making a repeat purchase. The second; most smallholder farmers (responsible for 80 percent of output) are too poor to afford good seeds. Chris Akor, an Oxford trained young Nigerian, who works in Lagos, decided to use part of his expansive compound in Sangotedo, at the outskirts of Ajah in Lagos for farming. Akor, being educated, decided to buy maize seeds from what ought to have been a reputable company, but he was soon to be disappointed. Two weeks after planting, some had germinated, others did not, and by the time the crops completed the 90 day cycle, he could only harvest about half of what he had cultivated. The quality of maize cobs was in his words, “another complete disaster”. However, unlike Akor, millions of smallholder farmers cannot even afford to purchase good seeds, as a result, resorting to the use of what was saved from their previous harvest. “It is not so much about the availability of seeds. The seed may be available but affordability is another issue. If something is available but you can’t afford it, you would want nothing to do with it,” said Hamza Ahmed Mahuta, a former key accounts manager at Syngenta, currently working as an agriculture consultant. Philip Ojo, director general of the National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), in an exclusive interview with BusinessDay, said “Farm yield in Nigeria is dependent on numerous factors chief of which is the genetic ability of the seed as well as agronomic factors. “Furthermore, what comes to mind is how much of ‘seed’ farmers are using in Nigeria. The bulk of our crop production is still dependent use of farm saved seeds partly due to the lack of awareness on the need to use quality seeds. Over the years we have done a lot to educate our farmers on the need to drop their own saved seeds and use quality seeds purchased from reputable and approved sources. According to Ojo, NASC has also in collaboration with the National and International Agricultural Research Institutes “made effort to inject quality early generation seeds (Breeder and Foundation Seeds) to ensure that certified seeds available to farmers are of the best quality that are superior to their own saved seeds. The changes can be seen in the level of increase in the quantity of seeds produced over the years.” Rotimi Fashola, general manager, Elephant Group Plc, however posited that “improved seeds are not available in sufficient quantities because we are yet to fully change from subsistence farming to commercial farming. This is a process and it will take some time and persistence. The same for the seed quality. Therefore, more and more companies (private sector) will join seed production once its commercially viable.” “Most farmers still re-cycle their seeds,” Fashola said. It complements Mahuta’s position, when he also noted that “many farmers in Nigeria are truly peasant. If you look at their lives you will realise what they produce is hardly enough to last them two to three months. The remaining periods they have virtually nothing, not even to keep as seeds but to feed their families. And unfortunately, about 80 percent of primary production in Nigeria is in the hands of these peasants.” He further explained that “there is one thing about farmers; generally, our people resist change, particularly for something that is expensive. So, they may not leave what they are used to and go for an expensive one they don’t even know. So, the best way to get (good seeds) to the farmers is either donating to them or giving it to them at a subsidised rate. “This is because, by the time they try it and see the difference between it and what they are used to, they will certainly want to adopt it. That is how fertilizer was introduced to Nigerian farmers,” said Mahuta. Ojo, NASC’s DG, established that Nigeria officially has “about 157 seed companies already licensed with 92 others awaiting Ministerial or Board approval. An additional 63 companies are awaiting the recommendation of the National Committee on Seed Company accreditation.” Out of these, only about 10 are not indigenous companies; implying the bulk of seed companies in Nigeria are indigenous. However, the quality of seeds coming from these companies suggest their competencies, not generally, but individually, may be subject to scepticism. Getting good, quality seeds into Nigeria has not always been easy as it appeared government deemed it fit to give local companies the preference in production, however unpleasant the outcomes have been. Rutger Groot, chairman, East-West Seed Knowledge Transfer, and a member of the Supervisory Board EWS BV, said in an interview that “in the past, there were restrictions on import of seeds. It is still not very easy, but it is better now. Now we can get a few varieties of tomato into the country. When I was here last year, farmers were just astonished what new varieties can do instead of reusing seeds. “You see a lot of farmers in Nigeria keep seeds which they reuse; part of their last harvest saved as seed for the following year. But unknown to them, with every generation quality goes down. So if you just spend a little money on a bag of seeds, the quality will always be uniform and high level. This is something farmers have to learn,” said Groot. Lack of quality seeds which deters many farmers from making a purchase at all, sees several others falling victim to it, and losing their capital when yields are not commensurate with the investment made. Ojo, whose agency oversees monitoring seed production and distribution, said “Farmers’ productivity is greatly impacted by the sale and use of fake or adulterated seeds.  Spurious seed dealers involved in the sale of adulterated seeds to unsuspecting farmers are a big challenge to the seed industry. “Their activities are a disservice to the nation, as they rob unsuspecting farmers of their increase in productivity and further make farmers to have a wrong impression of good, quality seeds.” Fashola, Elephant group’s general manager, also noted that for grains that are being repackaged and sold as seed, the industry has to be better “regulated by the National Seed Council by monitoring and policing the seed companies so that they adhere to the right process of seed production. Also, the seed certification system must be improved by committing more money and man-power to it.” The unavailability of good seeds can also be attributed in part to the Growth Enhancement Support (GES) programme introduced by the Federal Government in 2012, as part of measures to depoliticize the input sector by withdrawing the state from procurement of inputs and developing a private sector channel for input distribution. Since 2014, out of about N67 billion being owed an estimated network of 300 companies that participated in the scheme, N18 billion remained unpaid as at last month when BusinessDay spoke with Kabiru Fara, national chairman of the Agro Dealers’ Association. The impact has been felt throughout the country, and more so in the country’s northeast where farm productivity has nosedived. In the Seed Security Assessment in North Eastern States of Nigeria by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations in 2016, it was stated that; the withdrawal of some private partners from the GES Scheme (a government farm input subsidy programme) led to reduction in quantity of certified seeds and fertilizers available at community level. Moreover, private seed companies reportedly shifted their interest to government and INGOs’ orders and not individual farmers. This was prompted by the comparatively low demand or adoption of adapted certified seeds by the individual farmers and the companies’ interest in prioritizing the few large orders from DSD providers. Some local grain markets were also disrupted, especially in the areas extensively affected by the insurgency. These markets had usually offered an alternative source of seed for poor farmers who needed to supplement their own saved seeds but couldn’t afford better yielding certified seeds. Seed Aid interventions were limited across the three states and largely targeted the internally displaced persons with access to farming land; not the poor farming households. Even before the GES scheme collapsed (more or less), the quality of seed supplies was in doubt, even though farmers ‘were still getting something’. Mahuta, formerly with Syngenta, revealed that “Once the idea of GESS was introduced, most of the senior civil servants registered seed companies.” “Seed companies are supposed to produce seeds but in actual sense what do we see, they go to the open market to buy grains, package them and supply to the areas they are meant to provide seeds to. So, that is another very big problem, in fact, that is why Syngenta had to go into rice seed production, because Syngenta had very good crop protection chemicals, but they discovered there were no good seeds available. So, for those chemicals to give desired effects, they needed to be applied on good seeds, and they discovered that not that there is no good seeds, but they are so limited in number.” Making a case for Soybean: High demand, abysmal yields “There is a small quarrel between the United States and China, soybeans and sorghum are part of items in dispute. The Chinese have a preference for the hybrid soybean from Nigeria, and will like us to sell them two million tonnes of soybean per annum. That is quite a place to do some business,” said Audu Ogbeh, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, at BusinessDay’s Agribusiness and Food Security Summit this year. But then, the Agriculture Promotion Policy document shows that Nigeria produces only 500,000 metric tonnes, with a demand of 650,000 thousand. The crop is important as an Animal feed and alternative source of protein which determines demand for it annually. Mahuta, who says he has cultivated Soyabean for the last 10 years, explained that it is not a high yielding crop. And, even less of it is grown since it is not a staple food. “If you produce it as a small farmer, you may be forced to sell it at harvest and probably get nothing. Only people that have capacity to produce and keep for some time may benefit from it. It is a very low yielding crop, to the best of my knowledge. “I have been cultivating soybean for more than ten years now, and I am yet to get the variety that gives up to a tonne per hectare. Most of these seed companies may say it will give up to 2.5 tonnes per hectare but honestly I have not seen that yet.” The demand for soybean will however continue to increase and according to Olam Grains, a subsidiary of one of Nigeria’s leading agriculture companies, demand could reach 3.5 million metric tonnes by 2040. Through a systematic field research, Olam has identified the availability of good-quality, high-yielding seeds as a major catalyst for boosting farmer’ earning, thereby generating interest among more farmers to grow soybeans. The company has also partnered the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA), to promote the commercialisation of its tropicalised soybean varieties, suitable for the different agro-climate conditions for various parts of Nigeria. In 2017, the company started a 220-hectares trial seed farm on its Kaduna site, and proved the seed farming model succcesfull. In this rainy season, Olam has expanded its seeds production to 500-hactares to offer high-quality certified seeds to Soya farmers in Nigeria. This is expected to contribute towards Olam’s ambitious target to increase Nigeria’s soybean production to 2.0 million metric tonnes in five to seven years. However, for the country to produce at least fivefold of what it currently does, to meet local and export demands, more innovations are required in seed production. Initiatives such as the one being championed by Olam and IITA, would not only need to be replicated, but actively supported across the country. When this rapid development in capacity happens, Nigeria’s local demand for Soybean (just like other commodities) will not only be met, but the country will as well be able to trade with China. Their present demand of two million metric tonnes of Soybean export, which is more than four times what Nigeria is producing, can then be met, and even surpassed to meet whatever may be required in the future. But for this to be achieved, good, quality, authentic seeds need to be made available for farmers to become truly productive.