Hadur Travel and Tour has emerged the winner of Africa’s Best Premium Travel Management Agency of the Year 2018 award for its contributions to tourism sector of the economy. The award was presented to the company by the African Brand Congress at the 2018 edition of the African Brand Leadership Merit Award held in Lagos. As the only brand selected from the travel and tour sub-sector in 2018, Hadur was picked for the award by the Technical Committee of the Brand Leadership Award because of its recent strides and innovation in building a brand that is in tune with International best practices. Convener, ABC, Desmond Esorougwe, explained that Hadur Travel and Tours has made an outstanding contribution to the development of tourism and agricultural sector in Nigeria and across the continent. He said, “Hadur has contributed to the economic aspirations of Nigerians and the transformation of African’s image in the International market while displaying a high standard of good corporate citizenship and social responsibilities. The award is aimed at celebrating Leadership, innovations and creativity in Africa. It showcases brilliant minds and institutions that are delivering positive change and shaping Africa’s future.” Olufunke Taiwo, chief executive officer, Hadur Travel and Tours, explained that the company’s sophisticated online presence backed up by a good reputation earned Hadur such laurel. With the recognition, elated Taiwo expressed gratitude to the organizers for the recognition and ascribed the company’s success to its “ever-increasing number of satisfied clients, who give us challenging projects and their post-service referrals over the years. We assured both existing and potential clients that we will not relent in providing personalised, exceptional, professional services for them.” “We are set to further give our best to stakeholders in the tourism and agriculture sector. As a support player, we will go all out to use tourism as a tool to educate farmers in a practical way. Travel is an education and the best way to learn is practical exposure. Farmers need to take time off work to go on group tours to other farms, exhibitions, courses, training to other agricultural establishments as it remains a very smart way to grow.” Aside from organising agricultural tours, the Hadur boss added that it also provides action-packed life-changing spiritual tours, stress-free and exciting trips to Holy Sites, exotic sites around the globe, inbound tourism, business training and Visa Assistance to selected countries among others. “Though, we admit that doing business in Nigeria is challenging as the business environment is harsh but we will keep innovating and look for new ways to delight our customers. Hadur will never give up on exploring new opportunities because it is sure of a better Nigeria tomorrow,” she added.