The Americas Empowerment Institute (AEMPIN), a world leading capacity building institute has collaborated with Texas Southern University to train and equip more African public sector managers with the right intellectual knowledge to compete on a global scale. AEMPIN is a public, non-political, non-profit educational institute serving a global constituency. The institute recently trained and graduated 68 workers; 25 of which were participants of a mini-MBA in strategic management and leadership course, 13 of them, participants of certified telecoms managerial specialist course and 30 participants of emerging trends and improved effectiveness in public service delivery course at its campus in Houston, Texas, United States of America. Nadine Jenkins, international program director of AEMPIN confirms that the institute has trained over 20,000 officials from 51 different countries and has conducted trainings in both U.S and abroad. According to her, AEMPIN has trained more African corporate executives than any other school in the world under its scholarship programs. “AEMPIN empowers capacity to foster economic development and upward mobility, while promoting and supporting strong governance through emerging trends and international best practices. “We are a world leading capacity building firm with over 16 years’ experience in providing specialized and highly rated training in the areas of information technology, utility, governance, regulation, law, leadership, management, finance, public procurement, and telecommunications”, Jenkins added. AEMPIN also provides consulting services to developing countries in the empowerment methodology and the designing of their economic and government policies, in efforts to further support and promote good and efficient governance through emerging trends and international best practices. “Scholarships given to participants allow the institute to expand its works and worldwide mission. Scholarships are utilized to help subsidize and sponsor individuals from foreign governments, which have both the desire and commitment to raise the level of proficiency of its staff and therefore the effective governance of its people, but simply do not have the necessary budgets to train every official who should be trained. Education remains the highest and greatest investment a government can undertake. “No country can graduate from being a developing country to being an emerging country to being a developed country without adequate capacity empowerment. We are determined to empower as many as qualified for our scholarships based on available funds”, Jenkins explained.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson