The Minister of Science and Technology, Mr Ogbonnaya Onu, on Monday said that the Executive Order 5 would redirect the economy from unsustainable, resource-based to sustainable, knowledge and innovation-driven. At a press conference in Lagos on the Executive Order 5, Onu described the order as a revolutionary instrument. The conference took place at the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO). “The order is meant to promote patriotism as potent tool for a new social engineering of the country. “It will trigger a silent revolution on how we think as a people and how we regard science and technology as the missing link in the country’s quest to become a truly great nation,” he said. Onu said that in the next 10 to 20 years, Nigerian companies and firms would compete with the best in other parts of the world for projects and contracts in international tenders. He noted that the Executive Order 5 demanded that procuring entities should give preference to Nigerian companies and firms when awarding contracts, in line with the Public Procurement Act, 2007. He said that the ages of the firms would not be important so long as they were registered and possessed requisite qualifications, competence and experience in the management and execution of such contracts. According to the minister, foreign experts will be engaged when such expertise is not available in Nigeria. He added that while engaging foreign experts, Nigerian professionals would be attached to understudy them. Onu said that the ministry would establish centres for acquisition of technology in the six geopolitical zones to promote technology utilisation and strengthening of technology management capability. He said that the ministry would ensure that the order would be fully implemented to create wealth, reduce poverty and provide employments. “The rise of Nigeria to greatness and the happiness of Nigerians will be guaranteed with the Executive Order 5. “Never will Nigeria continue to import from other countries many of her needs; never again will Nigeria employ foreign experts to do works Nigerians can do. “Never will Nigeria not be able to feed herself; never will Nigeria continue to export crude oil and import refined petroleum products; never again will they export wood, only to import toothpicks,” he said. Onu said that Nigeria would add value by using science, technology and innovation to convert its abundant resources to product and services needed at home. He said that, by implementing Executive Order 5, Nigeria would become prosperous, peaceful, secure and respected, and ultimately emerge as a major force in the global arena. Mr Bitrus Nabasu, Permanent Secretary in the ministry, said that the order was a deliberate step by the government to usher in a new Nigeria and engage Nigerians in all sectors to contribute to its growth and sustainable development through science, technology and innovation. He said that the order was the foundation for a knowledge-based development revolution that would entrench science and technology in everyday life of Nigerians. Nabasu said that signing of the order showed the government’s commitment to increasing investment, job creation, capacity of Nigerian professionals, and ensuring economic self-reliance. Prof. Gloria Elemo, Director-General of FIIRO, said that the order would position the institute to drive the industrialisation and diversification agenda of government. Dr Frank Jacobs, President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, described the order as a laudable initiative that would promote patronage of made-in-Nigeria products. Jacobs said that manufacturers were hopeful of effective implementation of the order to achieve the desired results. Mr Adekunle Mokuolu, President, Nigerian Society of Engineers, remarked that Nigerians and not material resources were the country’s real asset. He said that the country would be great if it would adequately explore the knowledge of its citizens. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the order was signed by President Muhammadu Buhari on Feb. 5 to promote the application of science and technology toward achieving the nation’s development goals across all sectors.