The Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) of the manufacturing sector slowly expanded to 56.8 inderx point in the month of July with 13 out of 14 sub-sectors reporting growth. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Tuesday released the PMI report for July, which show that the manufacturing PMI declined by 0.2 point compared to the level of 57 index point recorded the previous month. The report revealed that the production level, new orders, employment level and inventories grew at a slower rate; while supplier delivery time grew at a faster rate in July 2018 The sub-sectors which reported growth in the manufacturing sector include petroleum & coal products; printing and related support activities; paper products; electrical equipment; primary metal; furniture and related products; non-metallic mineral products; transportation equipment; textile, apparel, leather and footwear; chemical and pharmaceutical products; food, beverage and tobacco products; cement; and fabricated metal products. The Plastics and rubber products subsector declined in the review month. However, the composite PMI for the nonmanufacturing sector stood at 57.7 points in July 2018, indicating expansion in the Nonmanufacturing PMI for the 15 consecutive months. The index grew at a faster rate when compared to 57.5 index point recorded in June 2018. Under non-manufacturing sector, business activity, employment level and inventories grew at a faster rate; while new orders grew at a slower rate in July 2018. The manufacturing and non-manufacturing PMI Report on businesses is based on survey responses, indicating the changes in the level of business activities in the current month compared with the preceding month. A total of 16 out of 17 non-manufacturing sub-sector recorded growth in the review period. These include order: information and communication; finance and insurance; water supply, sewage and waste management; wholesale/retail trade; health care and social assistance; educational services; agriculture; real estate rental and leasing; arts, entertainment and recreation; professional, scientific, and technical services; transportation and warehousing; accommodation and food services; repair, maintenance/washing of motor vehicles; utilities; electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning supply; and construction. The management of companies subsector recorded contraction in the review period. A composite PMI above 50 points indicates that the manufacturing/non-manufacturing economy is generally expanding, 50 points indicates no change and below 50 points indicates that it is generally contracting. The July 2018 PMI survey was conducted by the Statistics Department of the Central Bank of Nigeria during the period July 12 – 20, 2018. The respondents were purchasing and supply executives of manufacturing and non-manufacturing organizations in all 36 states in Nigeria and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT).  HOPE MOSES-ASHIKE 