President Muhammadu Buhari and his Benin Republic counterpart, Patrice Talon Wednesday agreed on the imperativeness of a joint committee to combat smuggling. The menace of smuggling had been a source of major concern to both countries with Nigeria being at the receiving end as the country had become a dumping ground as a result of the menace. Recall that the countries had earlier this year agreed to install ultra modern scanners to check smuggling along its borders including Seme Border which is one of the busiest entry and exit points The two countries also face the challenge of multiplicity of borders covering over 778 kilometers located in about six states in Nigeria, in Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Kwara, Niger and Kebbi.
The agreement was reached after President Muhammmadu Buhari met Talon at the Presidential Villa, Abuja on Wednesday Also consulted in the workings of the committee is Niger Republic, which is believed to be a transit point in the concentric circle of smuggling of commodities, particularly rice, into Nigeria. A statement signed by Presidential Spokesman, Femi Adesina, after the meeting said President Buhari had informed his guest that “We have succeeded in cutting the importation of rice into the country by about 90%,” The President also stated that smuggled parboiled rice still finds its way into the country, thus vitiating the efforts of government, and discouraging farmers. “When I got into office in 2015, the first thing I did was to visit all our neighbours; Niger Republic, Chad, Cameroon, and Benin Republic. It made both economic and security sense, because if you are in good terms with your neighbours, you ultimately spend less on both physical and food security, “ He, however, added that activities of smugglers are hindering Nigeria’s quest for self-sufficiency, particularly in rice production.
A more sinister side to the smuggling menace, President Buhari noted, is the influx of small arms and ammunition into the country, thus increasing the spectre of insecurity.
Modalities of the joint committee to combat smuggling are to be worked out as soon as possible, the two leaders agreed.
The Nigerian President also welcomed the idea of a rail network to link Nigeria, Benin Republic, Niger Republic, and some other countries, saying “it is valuable economically,” and would be subjected to further comprehensive study. President Talon said smuggling affects both Nigeria and his country negatively, and also constitutes a threat to the bilateral relationship between the two countries. “We are aware of how rice smuggling is affecting the development of local capacity in rice farming in Nigeria. It is affecting trade between us negatively, and Nigeria is an important partner for a country like Benin.
But we have no powers to block goods meant for other countries, and our country is not the final destination for the smuggled rice. We need to develop a common will to face the problem,”
He also submitted that the proposed rail network between the countries would boost economic development.
Only recently, the President of Dangote group, Aliko Dangote appealed to the federal government to intensify actions against dumping of goods on Nigeria smuggled through the Republic of Benin. He called for drastic action to halt smuggling which is likely to weaken Nigeria’s efforts at building strong manufacturing base. According to him, “ The drastic action that should be taken is any action that will stop the Republic of Benin encouraging people to come and dump goods into Nigeria. “There are so many of them, it is to do with textiles, sugar, pasta, vegetable oil, arms and ammunition. Because, the smuggling really has gone out of control and we need to really do something.
Dangote noted that the challenge of smuggling was very very deep, adding that “ the biggest issue and challenge for the economy and also for the manufacturing has to do with smuggling and I think unless we really we take a very drastic action against the Republic of Benin, I don’t think we are really going to be successful” “You know we have to attack it from two fronts; one is stopping the Republic of Benin from promoting smuggling into Nigeria and two, to ensure we stop those who are patronizing the goods in the market, that is to stop people from selling smuggled goods. He lamented that smuggling was already having strong crippling effect on the “economy and not allowing us to create jobs” “ It is allowing us to create more poverty because some of our business are shutting down. If you are shutting down you are creating more job loss rather than employing more people.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 