The Nigeria Computers Society ( NCS) has called on the Federal Government to formulate digital inclusion policy in order to overcome challenges confronting the country in the areas of health, economy, security and other facets of life. Sola Aderounmu,President of the NCS, expressed concern that the benefits of Information Technology have not been fully harnessed, judging by the exclusion of a good number of women, children and the physically-challenged from the benefits of digitalization. Speaking at the 27th national conference of the society, in Ibadan  Aderounmu  said; “I must say that the benefits of the internet have not been utilized as expected in Nigeria. The consequence is that women, individuals living with disabilities, the poor and the rural populace have become extensively digitally excluded”. “With nationwide presence and proper digital inclusion, healthcare delivery, poverty reduction, job creation, education, governance, food security and social harmony in the society will be greatly enhanced.” Aderounmu who also presented award to Governor Abiola Ajimobi as Digital Governor of the year said that the society was also impressed with the ingenious ways the state had proffered digital solutions to the management of its key structures and units. “Governor Ajimobi is deserving of this award because of his strides in deploying ICT to solve problems in governance. The success story range from administrative efficiency, prompt accounting system, effective health and education policies as well as security of lives and properties”. “When you talk of states that are peaceful in Nigeria today, you won’t count three before mentioning Oyo. The state uses CCTV to monitor flashpoints in Ibadan to nip crises in the bud”. “The resolve of the state to establish the first Technical University in the country and creation of technological hub in Ibadan for foreign investors to produce materials, which will engender massive employment opportunities and grow the local economy, is also commendable”. Presenting the award, he said that Ajimobi was given the award in recognition of his administration’s digital inclusion policies and in appreciation of what the society called his administration’s digital strides in governance. In his response, the governor said that the state was reaping the fruits of its heavy investment in digital inclusion in the management of security, payroll system, finance and other aspects of governance. Ajimobi said that the state had attained the status of a digital hub where different policies and engagements such as security of lives and property, finance, civil service efficiency, contracts and procurements had been automated. The governor said, “We embarked on a well-rounded automation drive that was launched at the beginning of this administration, results of which we are now reaping”. “We have been able to identify many parts of digitalization applicable to general operations in governance. Our effort at making Oyo State a digital hub is being felt in security, administration, finance, the civil service and other aspects of governance”.