Victor Sanchez Aghahowa is a seasoned Nollywood showrunner- writer, director and producer. In this interview with BILL OKONEDO, OBINNA EMELIKE and SOMTOCHUKWU EPUM, he gives informed insights into the workings, pitfalls and prospects for Nigeria’s movie industry. Excerpts: Reports of exponential growth in Nollywood It depends on what angle these reports are coming from. In terms of output we have always been top three or top five worldwide. In terms of quality, which is a relative term, I don’t know if we’ve ever placed top five. There may be multiple reason why people are talking about Nollywood and one of the reasons might be how cheaply we produce content, quality content because that’s one of the reasons why there is a lot of international attention on us. We can produce let’s say an entire season of content of questionable quality on the amount that a typical American production would spend on lunch break for a crew for a week. And by the way, they shoot an episode in about eight days. So that’s less than the cost of lunch for one episode. So if we then on our end need tools to ramp up production quality wise, it still won’t cost them that much to come here and make a season of television. It would be so cheap. So it’s almost like what outsourcing pay phones or call centres did with North America and India for instance. It would be great to come here and outsource a lot of productions. So that’s one thing. Improved quality We have always been top five. Top five in output is like calling Nigeria the giant of Africa. Its in population. What do you do with that information? What difference does it make? Positives in Nollywood Are there negatives? People are saying now that there is a lot of increased quality in our productions, as compared to what came before but what came before is what built all this. What came before is the real industry, what came before is what brought us to number three, what came before is what caused us to be what is it four percent now of GDP? That’s what is doing it. These new, for lack of a better word- vanity projects, waste lots of money, they haven’t exactly contributed to the improvement of any industry. What has happened is from an insider’s point of view, this is my personal opinion, let’s just clarify, I am going to diverge from the professional opinion. What we have are little pockets of industry, we don’t have one unified industry. We have a guild, for instance a directors’ guild which does not even work, but at the same time you are not going to tell me that every director working now is in the guild. We have a screen writer’s guild but you’re not going to tell me that every writer is protected by the guild. There is no fixed guild rate. This is not to knock on the guild; this is just stating what is. So when I say something like there is no unified industry, the little pockets of industry is the people who make things work but each one has a different paradigm, each one operates on a completely different system. For instance, when people say Nollywood, traditionally you mean the straight to DVD business, not the cinema business which is a completely different business, completely different players, completely different rules, completely different margins, which is a completely different business model from somebody who is taking the film to the cinemas, which is completely different from people who make made for TV movies. You can find your way in one of them and have a full and lucrative career and never be able to cross to the other. Success in one does not guaranty success in another. Now, from the outside you can lump this all and say this is all one industry but in terms of increasing quality, straight to DVD market for example. For example let me use my mother. Her idea of quality is not the same as somebody who goes to the cinema. When you put your films in the cinema, you are not competing with other Nigerian films. When you are talking about quality its relative. Certain markets are fed by certain needs. It’s the same as trying to explain science to a kid through an episode of Sesame Street. You are not going to do equations, you’re going to try and break it down. Its not an indictment on anybody, its different markets, different entertainment, different things and we are slowly now beginning to segment, people want different things. Segmentation It’s been segmented mostly in terms of distribution but its also now segmenting in terms of audience as well. I will give you an example of what I mean when I say segmentation. Television in the late 80s, early 90s worldwide began to segment. So if you want soccer, you go to Supersports, for example. If you want music you go to MTVbase, you want news, you go to CNN, it started to segment. Magazine television began to change, there wasn’t that typical cartoons at four, news at five. But for a long time we held onto that. I am not saying that is good, I am not saying that is bad, that’s just what it was. So breaking it to market segments, we have always had that old be all things to all men and embrace everybody, which I don’t know if it works anymore but a certain generation grew up never knowing that, and a certain generation grew up knowing nothing but that, so they had to meet somewhere in the middle. In terms of distribution, there is the whole online thing now; you meet people nowadays who don’t own a television. They watch everything off their laptops. There is a whole generation who has no interest in television, unless it’s a smart TV that’s directly connected to the internet, so everything is off Netflix, YouTube, IrokoTV. They don’t own DSTV; they are not interested in boxes. Then there are people who will forever hold on to boxes. There are people who still have DVD players; people who have not seen a disc in decades. So it’s a weird mix, we’re talking about like delivery. For example, you could say streaming for instance over the internet but even within streaming, there is Iroko, there is Netflix that you pay for. Then there is YouTube, where people like NdaniTV and RedTV put up entire channels that you can watch for free anytime anywhere. They are both streaming services, but they are not the same thing. One of them is you watch for free, one of them is you pay for it. So it’s all segmenting based on how you plan to consume your entertainment, and then of course there is the typical market segment where it’s all about demographics. It’s more about splitting among demographics. Funding models There are a lot of funding models but I don’t think a lot of funding models are regimented. So, there are as many as anybody can think of. There’s funding that comes in from silent investors who want to take a crack at it. They have done their studies and they have put in fixed amounts of money per year and so we can come and pitch for it. There’s the Bank of Industry thing that was around for a while and still is. There’s marketers funding films, which is one of the big complaints about the old Nollywood model which was that the marketers were controlling the content and so there was no avenue for “real” creativity and they were stifling creativity because the marketers were asking you to make a specific type of film. There’s independent funding, when somebody sells their land and sells their house and sells their car and puts some money into the film. I’ve met people who have done that. There’s another one that I’ve seen a few times, which is more hobbyist- people who have a lot of money from another career and like the glamour of the film industry. They put a lot of money into it. If the film doesn’t do well, okay, it was disposable change anyway. There are multiple forms of funding. It’s just people strike out and look for the best. The best means they can tell the stories they wish to tell. Quality There’s this thing about saying if we can up the quality. I always put that in quotes because quality is always relative. You don’t need that much money for good audio, you don’t need that much money for the picture, and technology has democratised the system. You don’t need a huge hardware rack now to get good audio. You don’t need that much money. Now, a lot of producers use that as a nice tag line to get money from people. Yes you need high budgets for certain types of projects, there are no arguments there. The question is why? If you’re making a film that you want to travel, you want this film to go to TIFF(Toronto International Film Festival) for foreign festivals and the likes, you have to meet some technical standards, fine. If you want to make content for, say Netflix or whatever, they have a technical rider, it has to be shot in 4K that is absolutely fine. But if you are trying to make a film that is a grassroots comedy and your primary market is Nigeria, you can’t explain to me why you are shooting that on 4K when we don’t have a single cinema that can broadcast in even 2K. That makes no sense, why are you wasting that money? The first rule in film school is if you want to make a film that makes a billion dollars, real simple, make a $10 film that makes a $100, then make a $100 film that makes $1,000, then make a $1,000 that makes $10,000. One of the problems is that some people have too easy access to funding. Because the film makers don’t really know too much about funding, some of them don’t go through the steps of learning the business side of things and then there are the business people who want to get in but don’t bother about the creative. So what happens for instance is; people, who have a background in finance know how to do the paper work and get a loan. So they go and get a loan and they go and make this film that costs three arms and a leg without much energy of the creative. The film will make a noise, a lot of noise because you’ve spent money to make noise and then the film comes out and nobody talks about it. I can name three or four films where you heard a lot of pre-release buzz and then the film comes out and nobody is talking about it. The money doesn’t qualify whether the film is going to be good or not doesn’t qualify whether the film is going to travel or not. The question is; what is the final aim? If you are making a film that you want to go out, that film is going to go out. Not much is going to happen here, that’s fine. But saying oh you need to make the picture look a certain way, is that to satisfy your audience or to satisfy yourself? If you are going to take it to the cinema, then it has to look a certain way, there is no argument. If it’s going to go straight to DVD, you might not need all that. You have a budget that you need to work out. Do you need to spend more money on marketing; do you need to spend more money on distribution? Do you need that sequence where you blow up 20 cars? Now I am talking from a macro point of view of the industry, not of the individual. What the industry needs is a lot of content that has a lot of impact and makes a lot of money. Some big films will do that; some middle films will do that, some smaller films will do that. But there is no profitability in spending N200million to make a film that makes N400million. It’s not that profitable as far as I am concerned. A film that costs N10million that makes N100million. One made ten times the budget, the other one made two times the budget. Marketing Models In recent time I have heard talk, I haven’t experienced it directly. I have heard talk about distributors now doing the same thing marketers used to do then, which is telling you what type of films you can make, otherwise he will not distribute it for you. I have been hearing this for about three or four years now. Distributors saying you’ve got to make this type of film, that’s what sells. If you bring a film that is not that type of film he will not distribute you. It hasn’t happened to me. It has happened to too many people around me for me to say it’s not a thing. Let me tell why that’s affecting marketing, because the type of film you make determines how you market it. I think NdaniTV did a great job with ‘Skinny Girl in Transit’ for instance, the Gt stuff. I don’t think I ever saw a billboard but it vectored straight to the audience it was going to. That was fine. On the other end of the spectrum, I have seen billboards for films that nobody cared about. Marketing again is still almost a ‘try what that guy did’ let’s see what happens. But at the same time, there are people who are still doing some underground grassroots campaigns that are working. It’s not standardised unfortunately, like most of the things in our industry but people are trying some independent models, some are doing the normal PR route with the billboards. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn’t. Digital Model It’s both the democratisation of information, meaning anybody who has a smartphone, who has a laptop with an internet connection, has instant access. For instance, I make a horror film and the distributors are telling me comedies are what’s selling. They will not distribute my horror film. Instead of me to try and get into one of the 20 or one of the 30 screen halls at the cinemas, I can take it to the internet. That’s the great crazy thing about the internet – worldwide access. So, if I put it in that screen in Ikeja for instance, I have access to anybody 20 kilometres radius around Ikeja. If I put it on the internet, it’s the whole world. The problem, how do I tell the whole world its here. Its easier to sell it in Ikeja or to come and see it in Ikeja than to sell to the whole planet. That’s where things like Iroko, the subscription-based model as opposed to the buy one at a time model. For film, as opposed to music. In music, people tend to now buy singles, as opposed to entire albums but for films it’s more of a streaming model where it’s not people paying for one particular piece of content but paying for access to. So, you can meet somebody who has access to IrokoTV, and Netflix. That same person still watches YouTube for free stuff. So it’s almost like there’s no cap on what the market wants but in terms of digital and how it affects us, the streaming model seems to be the one that has caught on the most. It’s between the streaming model and the free to stream model like Ndani, YouTube channels where you can go streaming for free without paying. Global Attraction The films that took us there are the films that most people say were of low quality and we should wipe them out. It’s different strokes for different folks. To them (the foreign market) we are considered exotic. Anime – Japanese cartoon, took over the planet more than 15 years ago. Certain markets, certain vectors, certain audiences had no idea they were there. K-drama is South Korean TV shows, almost telenovelas. It’s huge business worldwide because it’s exotic. It’s different; it’s out of the unknown because it’s exotic. So, for a certain market, Nollywood is like that too. It’s really excitable, really high energy, over the top, very over the top thing that they haven’t seen before. They say we don’t make things like this. And people say we should stop making things like this and start making films like they do, yet they love you because you are different. So you’ve got to find a balance, where yes, you’ve got to keep your quality up. Your sound has to be good; otherwise I am not going to watch it because I can’t even hear what you are saying. Your picture has to be good but you also have to not lose the essence of what makes you Nigerian. Who are you selling to? What happens is a lot of people try to make content for Americans. You can’t tell the American the American story, so they make these weird films and Nigerians are like ‘who are you forming for? But we don’t act like that, what’s that?’ And Americans are like ‘what are you trying to do?’ And it just falls in no man’s land. Nobody is interested. Collaborations Before you find that kind of collaboration at least in front of the camera, we realise that there have been like three or four or five deals struck behind the camera, which is amazing. Even the last time I was here, one of the big things I was talking about is that we need to collaborate more than we compete. One of the classic feelings everybody has had watching a film is when the film is over and then the credits are rolling, you watch it like forever and then you wonder, ‘how many people does it take to make a film?’ Who are all these people?’ Because film making is one of the most expensive and the most collaborative art forms, which is why when people don’t treat it like a business, it can be very confusing to people like me. If you want to write a book, the highest you really need is a pen and a pad. I’m talking about write, not publish. But to make a film, before you even think of how you are going to distribute it sell it or market it, you can’t even make it without a small village. It takes a large amount of people. It’s a very collaborative thing. Most of our big films are collaborative efforts even behind the camera. This is between production houses, marketing houses distribution houses coming together and saying ‘let’s make this content. You make it, I’ll market it.’ That sort of thing. This is necessary. But not only on that level, on multiple levels. From the public sector to the private sector to politics, to whatever, we have a large issue of distrust which is a fall-out of corruption. It’s kind of hard for me to say I’m going to roll with you and do this project with you and I’m going to take 20 percent, you’re going to take ten. We are friends until the money comes out and suddenly, that ten, I want 17. Not that people behave like that, I’m saying the distrust. Before we even go into the deal, I assume he’s going to try to be fishy. But again, that has been broken piece by piece. The more collaborations happen and everything is on the level, the less people will be scared of collaborating. The big films are all children of collaborative efforts which it should be and I think that is what is going to move us forward. Big films This is one of our idiosyncrasies. When you say big, when somebody is putting out a trailer for a film and you say “Here is the trailer for the ‘hit’ movie”, how is it a hit when it’s not out yet? For some people, mostly the hobbyists that fall into this trap, they mistake noise and the public hype of the naira amount over profitability. Profitability is what is going to give rise to a stronger industry. The bigger movies draw the attention, which is great. They can travel, which is great for the public perception of the industry, to show that we’ve moved past a lot of the things we used to do then, that got us pigeon-holed. Guys who are still building from a smaller level, who don’t have access to that kind of finance will build based on their reputation and their output. We kind of balance each other out. Piracy Going digital cost us that thing where once you put your stuff online, any 15-year old with a laptop, who knows how to look can get your stuff for free. In the digital age, piracy has taken many forms, which is why building a reputation and building an audience is a lot more important than people think it is. If you build an audience, if you build a reputation, people even if they have access to your stuff, they will still pay the money. It is respect to you. For example, was it last year when game of thrones had an episode leaked, there was this question about whether it was going to affect the ratings. No way will it affect the ratings. I’m going to watch it on Tuesday pirated, I’m still going to show up on Sunday and watch it anyway. The fan base is too strong, it doesn’t work that way. So old school marketing means and new school record keeping means kind of don’t really understanding each other. For example, ratings used to be how many people watch the episode when it aired, for television. Now it doesn’t apply that way. The number who watched it that night is not as important as it used to be. Now you hear daily number plus three. Like who watched it three days after, number plus seven, who watched it seven days after when it came out on the streaming app. So they add that together now. It’s changed how we view stuff. Piracy really hasn’t gone anywhere, it may have changed form, its always been there but there are those who also factor in piracy, which I think is a smart move. If nobody is pirating my stuff it means I don’t have any demand. Piracy sucks but on the one hand it is kind of a good market indicator to know you have something that’s hot. If you can factor it in. There are countries in which shows go to DVD before they go to television. There are countries that when they release from TV to their streaming app, when they air on TV its not that easy to pirate anymore. But the instant they put it on a streaming app, its gone, which is where most of the pirated TV shows come from. Typically, if you see a show that was pulled off the internet, what happens is that there are no ad breaks. Some countries, there are no ads. What happens is that when it gets to the ad break, you have three seconds of black, and then it comes back up. Some countries code the advert in, so you don’t have that going to black. The adverts are fixed. You know what that means? It means the brand that sponsored me, even if these guys pirate me; the pirates are going to watch this video with ads in place. So if one million people pirate it, that’s one million people your message reached. They’ve turned piracy to marketing. You can either fight it or make it work for you. Societal ills I can’t speak for the industry but I can speak about the industry. It’s a fifty-fifty middle of the road argument that has gone on forever. The music industry had its turn, the movie industry had its turn, and the video games industry had its turn of being blamed for every wrong in the world. If you approach it from the classical view of literature, then your job is not to preach, your job is to be a mirror of your society. Do film makers have a responsibility? I believe so. Is it a duty? I don’t think so. I think it’s a responsibility. I’ll tell you why. Very slowly, this doesn’t happen at once. You don’t release one film and change everybody’s mind. But over time, if its most people’s primary means of exposure, that’s where TV has more influence than film, people start to form opinions that slowly become common knowledge. An example, if somebody is shot with a shotgun he would fly. This is not true but you’ve seen it a million times in films. By the laws of physics it is impossible. You shoot at a car twice it’s going to blow up. You’ve seen that a million times in the film. It absolutely does not happen. It’s just not a real thing. But you’ve seen it so many times that it has entered the collective national psyche. We both know that when you shoot a car twice it’s going to blow up. Nigerians wear jeans. This weather is not exactly great for jeans but we do it. People drink Coke, why? There are no health benefits but we do it. We saw it so many times; it has been reinforced into what we do. Does it influence people? Yes. Pretending that it doesn’t influence people is kind of a fallacy. You may not set out to influence people but realise that you are influencing people. Therefore, your responsibility is to be careful with the kind of things you put up. That’s why I say it’s more of a responsibility than a duty. So, if the question is do I think that the Nigerian movie industry is doing enough? I’d say yes because I would answer it from the point of view of; are they aware of their responsibilities? As far as I am aware of, yes. I don’t think I’ve seen anybody flagrantly abusing the mouth piece or soap box that they have. Can we do more with it? Absolutely, yes. Industry statistics Yes and no. Any serious minded businessman in any industry will keep stats. But like I said before, where its little pockets of people doing their own different things everywhere, there are not many people who are now going to take this guy’s stats and compare them with that guy’s stats. There is something that is situated at the Pan Atlantic University; I think it’s called the Nigerian Centre for Nollywood Studies. They do a lot of that. I have heard of one or two others who are similar. Are there ratified statistics where everybody agrees on this? Not so much. The data has to be correct; otherwise you are sabotaging your own business. He makes a film then comes back and says that film made N600 million. Do I have to trust him that it made N600 million? I don’t have to trust him. But if I go to the distributor who carried his film, he better have the proper numbers, otherwise he is ruining his own business. He is going to say N600 million to make us watch his next film. I’m not going to go to him; I’m going to go to his distributor. It’s like a census; you know they can’t count everybody. What you are going to see is like an aggregate. In terms of growth, the straight to DVD market was incredibly high but from a surface look, you would say it has slowed down a bit. It’s not as it used to be, where any street you drive down, you virtually have people forcing DVDs into your car window. Game changers There have been game changers but it’s in small increments which is how all real progress happens. There have been game changers; there will be more game changers. I think there needs to be a real delineation between purely commercial projects, locally commercial projects and international projects. Let me put it this way. Who is your audience? What will happen is when we get enough groundswell for local content that gives us pride in our local content. What we need, I think is segmentation in our content. For instance one of the reasons Hollywood is still holding on to its position tenuously is their genre format. For example almost only in Hollywood do you see a classic horror film, comedy, romantic comedy, action film? Think about it. Almost every other film market, they do not divide them that clearly, where there’s a horror film that comes out around October. Why? Halloween. So if I’m going to the movies with my wife, I know she hates horror film, so she can go buy a ticket and go see that romantic comedy and I’m going to see my horror film, we meet back by 2.30. In terms of what we are going to be able to achieve here, as long as there are gate keepers telling you what you can and cannot make, speaking for the audience. There’s a lot of information then missing in which film makers don’t really know what the audience wants because nobody has tested the audience. There are a few people who have appointed themselves as tastemakers. It happens in every industry. Editors get carried away and start to think that they are taste makers. Regulator They are doing something. Sometimes a little too much because simply there have been too many cases of them telling film makers to change things in films. There is a difference between ‘Oh do you want this rating? Or the reason I gave you this rating is because of this, this and this. If this and this weren’t there you would get the ratings you are looking for’. That’s completely different from ‘You have to change the ending of your film or we will not certify you’. That has not happened to me directly but I have heard reports of that happening. If I am wrong, okay. Taxation I was talking to a couple of film makers this morning, taxation, it works. They come after us, I guess as well as they should. Your bank account, almighty BVN (Bank Verification Number). They’ve got you. They have access to your bank account. You are supposed to show them your account every fiscal year. If you don’t, they give you a period of grace, and then they come after you. Yeah, we pay tax. A lot of people pay tax because they have to. Across the board FIRS, in the last few years they’ve ramped up their operations. For those of us in the entertainment business, we have felt their hand. They are doing their work, it’s not a bad thing, and you should pay your tax. Cinema I can’t speak for them because I am not in that particular industry, that’s the distribution industry. From my point of view, I think they are looking for a balance between what the market can bear and what the market wants. The market wants entertainment, the market wants cinema. Cinemas are not there as a film going experience. Cinemas are a social experience. People take people to cinema on dates, which by the way is a terrible date because both of you are just staring at the screen and not talking to each other but it’s like people who go to the mall just to see and be seen. In the cinema you are going to pay for an experience. Watching the film on your laptop is not the same as seeing it in a cinema. 