Manufacturers and importers will likely pay more on demurrage as chaos returns to Apapa following the withdrawal of naval personnel who have been helping to decongest the Apapa-Ijora Bridge.  The Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Beecroft, it was learnt, pulled its men from the road last week, in protest against what a source called ‘sustained blackmail’ by truck drivers, encouraged by shipping companies who profit from the Apapa chaos.  In Nigerian ports, an importer of 20-feet container is expected to get five days demurrage free from shipping companies, and upon the expiration of the free days, to pay daily charges of a minimum of N2, 850 for the first the 6-10 days; after which the money increases.  Shipping companies compel importers to deposit money for containers taken out of the wharf, which is then charged as demurrage if the containers are not returned within the five days’ window. With the lock-down on the bridge, it is impossible to return the empty containers within the grace period.  The chaos on the road/bridge is also encouraged by the fact that some of the shipping companies have reneged on agreement to provide loading bays for their containers.  For over six months the naval personnel worked to bring sanity to Apapa, by preventing petroleum tankers and container-trucks from parking and taking over the bridge as had been the case for years.  The naval personnel also worked in tandem with other stakeholders to enforce the call-up arrangement which allows only trucks with valid documents/ permits to access Apapa for loading.  The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) last Friday suspended Maerskline, Cosco Shipping, APS and Lansal for 10 days for failing to comply with the directive to acquire and operate holding bays in line with agreement reached in November last year.  Shipping companies had agreed last November with the NPA to use holding bays in dropping of empty containers, according to a statement by IsahSuwaid, assistant general manager, corporate and strategic communications of NPA.  Hence shipping companies’ non-compliance with the agreement with the NPA coincided with truck drivers’ attack on the naval personnel, fuelling suspicion that fingers should be pointed at shipping lines for not providing bays rather than the navy that reinstated sanity in Apapa.  Last week, the truck drivers allegedly went wild and mobilised miscreants against naval personnel whom they accused of ‘extortion and favoritism’.  According to report, the drivers in a mob-like operation attacked the naval personnel on duty and vandalised the patrol vehicle of the Operation MESA.  When the navy called for backup, Okon Eyo, a naval commodore and the commander NNS Beecroft, was said to have directed his men not attack the mob. Eyo was said to have then ordered the naval personnel to withdraw from the bridge back to the base with the vandalised patrol van.  Amid the return of the gridlock on the bridge, manufacturers say more will be spent on demurrage and logistics. Raw materials will also take more time to arrive factories, compounding challenges of high production cost and un-competitiveness of locally made products. Ede Dafinone, chairman of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), said what this portends is further frustration for businesses and people living in Apapa. Dafinone pointed out that the situation is likely to worsen an already bad security situation in the area, with attendant costs for exporters, manufacturers, businesses and residents. Recently, Cashew Association of Nigeria lamented the humongous loss borne by agro exporters while moving export products to other countries via Apapa roads. “An exporter, who ships 1,700 tons of commodities per day under normal circumstances when Apapa road was in good condition, now manages to only ship between 100 and 250 tons, and this is bad for business,” said TolaFaseru, president of the National Cashew Association of Nigeria. “These commodities are all perishable if not shipped on time will perish, meaning great loss of income, livelihood and export revenue for both exporters and the nation,” Faseru said. He explained that transaction cycles for export are taking longer than necessary and foreign buyers are beginning to question the integrity of contracts they enter into with Nigerians. Adeyemi Adeniji, CEO, Startlink Global and Idea Limited, said trucks take seven to 10 days on Apapa road and 15 days at the APMT, meaning that their non-oil products start depreciating when they get to the ports. “Nigeria is competing with the best origins of the world. It is quite unfortunate that with the recent happenings, we may start losing all that we have achieved do far,” Adeniji said. “Most of our buyers have started writing to state that they want to cancel the contract agreements we have entered, because of the delays in meeting up with those contracts. “The standard of our commodities is also affected. Before now cashew nuts used to have 1.2 or 1.3 percent of fatty acids but today due to the Apapa gridlock we have found out that our recent shipments get to their destination having 15 percent of fatty acid,” he stated.