Cyberspace Network Limited in conjunction with IBM are ready to promote big data and cybersecurity across organisations, through a one-day hands-on workshop on data consolidation and cybersecurity. The two companies are collaborating to hold a workshop themed Data Consolidation and Harnessing: The Foundation and Sustenance of National Development. This will help public and private organisations to learn how to utilize big data for transformation and development. Cyberspace is a business partner of IBM with specialisations in server and storage systems while IBM manufactures and markets computer hardware, middleware and software and provides hosting and consulting services in areas ranging from mainframe computers to nanotechnology. Addressing the media on the upcoming workshop, Olusola Bankole, chief marketing officer Cyberspace Network Limited said; ‘In this workshop, we will be showing participants how developed nations are driving national development with data, the underlying technology behind the successful harnessing of data, and we will also be demonstrating how data can be secured 360⁰.’ The workshop will draw participants from all industry verticals viz public sector, conglomerates and logistics, financial services, higher institutions of learning, telcos and big multinationals. According to Bankole, ‘arguably, big data, as it is referred today because of the size and technology involved, remains the next frontier for innovation, competitive advantage, and productivity. And it is creating new revenue opportunities across nearly every industry.’ While explaining the significance of big data, Bankole said in quote, ‘it is no news that insight gained from data is driving the biggest nations of the world and engendering monumental innovative result across industries. In Banking and retail businesses, insight from data is used to better understand customer behaviour and preferences. In public Infrastructure, it is used to fuel smart cities. In Healthcare, it is used to better understand and predict disease pattern and find new cures.’ The Cyberspace-IBM workshop which is scheduled to hold on Wednesday 25th July, 2018 at Protea Hotel, Asokoro Abuja, the Federal Capital City, will showcase the best practice to gathering data and introduce tools to analyse same, for the purpose of national development. IBM is a well-known brand in the business of providing data servers and storage. Cyberspace, being an IBM partner, has implemented a number of server installations for IBM, especially the P-series of IBM servers. One major issue challenging businesses that had embraced big data is data security. How can we minimize unauthorised access to data? How can we make sure that only authorise users can access the data, even in the face of multi-faceted government agencies? IBM and Cyberspace have partnered together to come up with some robust best-practices, processes and technology to keep data safe. The company revealed that the upcoming workshop will explore many facets of securing data in the 21st century. Meanwhile, Cyberspace has attained the Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) level 3 certification. The CMMI is a software development process improvement approach, which has become the standard for measuring an organisation’s capability to apply a process based methodology to software development. By implications, the attainment of the CMMI means that Cyberspace software applications have gone through best practice and procedures at all stages of business requirement gathering, software development, testing, deployment and post implementation support. This guarantees customers’ comfort of using the applications. Prior to the Level 3 Certification, Cyberspace has developed, implemented and supporting countless number of business applications. Cyberspace is also a top player in Enterprise Network space with 4G Network Infrastructure in Lagos, Abuja and Delta State. As Systems Integrators, Cyberspace has deployed a number of network valued added solutions to solve complex business challenges. According to Bankole, CMMI helps to integrate traditionally separate organisational functions, set process improvement goals and priorities, provide guidance for quality processes, and provide a point of reference for appraising current processes.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 