Winston Churchill, 1874-1965, British statesman, said: “Politics is almost as exciting as war, and quite as dangerous. In war you can only be killed once, but in politics many times.” BukolaSaraki, a former governor of Kwara State and current president of the Senate, has been “killed” several times in his political career. He has been “killed” many times since 2015 when he won the election to lead his colleagues at the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Today, very interesting, those who “pierced his sides with cruel arrows”, are looking up to him for “deliverance”. That is the story of power; that is politics for you. Perhaps, Saraki appears to be the most valuable politician in the country at the moment. Although a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), his party members and leaders are not sure he is still with them, in truth and spirit, even though he may be clutching a band of broom, willy-nilly.  The acrimony Saraki has been at loggerheads with the leadership of the APC and the presidency. His problem with the party started shortly after the inauguration of the 8th Assembly on June 9,2015. He was said to have defiled the arrangements of his party leadership which had shared out the principal offices to certain individuals. Saraki’s emergence was seen as an affront on powers that be in the APC and the seed of discord was sown thenceforth. To pay the former governor of Kwara State in his own coin and to ensure he does not enjoy his tenure in office, the presidency in cahoots, with some chieftains of the party had moved against him, slamming some allegations against him. First, he was accused of false declaration of his assets when he was governor of the state 13 years ago. He became the first serving Senate president to be docked in the Code of Conduct Tribunal on corruption charges. The case went up to the Supreme Court, where he was discharged and acquitted, recently. While that was going on, the Senate President was again slammed with a forgery case alongside his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu. Both of them were dragged before the Federal High Court, Jabi, Abuja, over alleged forgery of Senate Rules. The High Court, in a ruling by Justice Gabriel Kolawole, held that the charge which was endorsed by the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, constituted a gross abuse of judicial process. The most recent is the allegation that Saraki was complicit in the robbery incident that took place in a bank in Offa area of Kwara State in which about 30 people were gruesomely murdered. On several occasions, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, had invited Saraki to Force Headquarters in connection with the robbery. Idris, it would be recalled, has been having a running battle with the Senate over his refusal to honour an invitation by the upper legislative chamber to explain the rising wave of insecurity in the country, particularly, the massacre of many people in Benue State by Fulani herdsmen. In what many observers considered a vendetta or an attempt to take a pound of flesh, the IGP has insisted that the Senate president must report at the Force Headquarters to be interrogated over the Offa incident. In the last few weeks, something interesting happened. The invitation was downplayed; the IGP appeared circumspect, but only went brazen after a meeting last week between the Senate president, the President, and the leadership of the APC. The meeting was at the instance of President Buhari to secure the buy-in of the Senate president into his (Buhari’s) second term ambition and to halt the alleged planned exit of the Kwara-born politician from the APC. The IGP revisited the invitation of Saraki over the Offa robbery incident, after the Senate president made public his intention to follow his mind irrespective of the alleged “juicy carrots” dangled before him as a move for rapprochement by the powers that be. Aso Rock and the APC must have read his body language and the fact that a number of his (Saraki’s) men are already saying ‘bye bye’ to the APC fold. So, the thinking is that with such senators who are close allies singing ‘defection song’, they may be indirectly conveying the message from Saraki and pointing towards his intention also.  Desperation to win back aggrieved members In the last few weeks, desperation has been high to woo Saraki and other members of the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC). Recall that Saraki had, in league with some governors of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and other chieftains, dumped the PDP and joined the then newly formed APC. It was their collaboration with the broom party that gave APC the overwhelming victory in the 2015 general election. Three years down the line, members of the defunct New PDP (nPDP) began to allege ill-treatment and marginalisation by the Buhari administration. Efforts mounted by Kawu Baraje, then leader of nPDP to get the government address the issues proved abortive. The group decided to adopt a new nomenclature– Reformed-APC (rAPC) and vowed to work with other parties to oust APC in 2019. Since the name-change, the Buba Galadima-led rAPC has been getting overtures from both PDP and APC. Last month when Baraje sought the President’s intervention, the Presidency referred him to the party’s leadership, saying it was a party issue that must be trashed out at that level.  The problem with the presidency BusinessDay gathered that Saraki and other senators who were allegedly approached with juicy offers were not enthusiastic because of the culture of broken promises by the President, particularly in relation to the electoral promises made to Nigerians. A source told BusinessDay that they did not want to be treated like “Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was used and dumped after the 2015 election, and was only remembered again when the issue of second term came up.”  APC looking to Saraki whom ‘they had pierced’ The APC and President Buhari appear jittery over the building coalition against the government. The APC leaders who were said to have manifested sheer arrogance when the rAPC pleaded for inclusion in the distribution of posts, have made a volte face, pleading with the aggrieved not to defect. In a statement issued a few days ago by the splinter group, it said, “We, members of the R-APC, find it very amusing that those who boasted that they won’t lose sleep over our altruistic action, have been hopping from door to door, pleading with our members not to leave by dangling juicy carrots and promising them heaven and earth.” According to the group, “Such level of double standard is the reason why the R-APC was birthed in the first place because the leadership is not one that keeps promises and it’s the reason why no one should take the APC seriously.” On the olive branch the APC is extending to Saraki, R-APC in its statement said it was surprised that the President had been holding meetings with Saraki, “reportedly promising mouth-watering offers; the same leader who was ridiculed,scandalised, demonised, criminalised and called all sorts of names by agents of the Presidency just to give the Senate president a bad name in order to hang him. “As soon as the Supreme court gave a resounding verdict on the trumped-up and frivolous charges against the Senate president, Mr. President suddenly felt a need to praise the judiciary for standing on its own. Power, as they truly say, must be a crazy aphrodisiac.” In the last 18 years, never had the number three citizen of Nigeria been so dehumanised, harassed, criminalised and disgraced than in this dispensation. Today, those who seek reconciliation “kept conspiratorial silence, waiting for the sledge hammer to fall on the Senate president while the trial lasted,” the group further stated.  PDP also wooing Saraki Some days ago, the new leadership of the PDP led by Uche Secondus, was in Ilorin, Kwara State, where it had a closed-door meeting with the Senate President. The essence of the meeting was to get him back to the umbrella association. Earlier, a PDP group in Kwara had expressed its desire to have Saraki back into the fold. In a statement issued by the group, it said: “We are eagerly and particularly looking forward to the arrival of all the widely acclaimed ‘game changers’ to strengthen our party and return us to our former winning ways. The clarion call is most appropriately directed to big time political leaders like Sraki, Lai Mohammed and Bashir Bolarinwa.” Observers say that the defection of “Saraki’s men” points to the direction the Senate president is headed.  A shadow of things to come The drama at the legislative chambers Tuesday is instructive and probably points to more dramas that should be expected before the general election. The residences of the Senate President and his deputy were allegedly besieged by security agents, ostensibly to prevent them from attending plenary. That same day, 14 senators and 37 members of the House of Representatives dumped the APC. The decampees also hinted that many more colleagues of theirs would follow in the next few days. In its reaction to the development, the R-APC in a statement said: “We woke up on Tuesday, 24th July to the very pathetic, ridiculous, fascistic, gangsteristic, and gestapoeic realities that have occupied our democratic space when President Buhari’s police decided to lay siege to the house of the leadership of the Senate, BukolaSaraki. He was prevented from proceeding to the hallowed chambers to carry out his legitimate duties as the duly elected Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We had raised alarm on the juicy carrot being dangled before some of our members and had alerted the country to sinister moves to call the Senate President a bad name in order to hang him. Barely three days after our earlier note of caution, the well scripted drama to undermine the rights of our members have come to light but in a very disturbing and utterly condemnable, Gestapo manner similar to that of members of the Jacobian scandal club of mediaeval ages in American 16th Century political history.”  What to expect in the days ahead Nigerians should brace up for more dramas. There could be more defections. The name of the game is power; there is nothing like ideology. Although the leadership of the APC as represented by Adams Oshiomhole, may have tried to put a bold face to the mass defections, saying he was not bothered by the development, the Presidency may be the more bothered. The question is whether the defections will affect the chances of the APC in the 2019 elections; time will tell. Expect more conciliatory meetings between the Presidency and some principal officers of the National Assembly on one hand and also between the party leaders and leaders of the R-APC group on the other hand. Nigerians should expect a higher level of desperation in the days and weeks ahead. The powers that be may go brutal against opponents in an attempt to coerce some of them into subjection.  Zebulon Agomuo