Emeh Glory Emeh, a trained accountant and lawyer, is the special adviser to Governor Nyesom Wike on political matters and strategy. In this interview in his house in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, the political strategist told BusinessDay editors – ZEBULON AGOMUO, JOHN OSADOLOR and IGNATIUS CHUKWU – that victory for Wike in 2019 is fait accompli. Emeh spoke on a number of issues ranging from his duties as a master strategist to the political barometer of Rivers at the moment, perception of the Wike administration by the people, what is to be expected in the state in 2019, and the recent MoU signed by 40 political parties in Abuja, which he said was tantamount to a red card to both President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress. Excerpts:  You have been around the political space in Rivers State. May we know your trajectory so far? I was in PDP. I left PDP for APC for a very short while. I discovered that the APC is not organized and I looked at those who are in the party and if you compare them with those in PDP (where all of us had been), I didn’t find myself in the midst of those who understand what the game means. All of us were taught by Odili how to play politics. I am also one of the products of Chief Sergeant Awuse and during Awuse’s time, if you want to use the general parlance, they called me the engine room of the Awuse political group. Without being seen to be arrogant, I must confess that I didn’t find the type of brain that I needed to see among the APC people even when they were using my house as their meeting place. One thing led to the other; I had to return back to PDP. The day I was received back to the PDP, I returned with 8,720 persons and it was a heavy funfair in Sharks Stadium in Port Harcourt. Immediately after that ceremony, my house became a Mecca of sorts that anybody who wanted to get back to the PDP or follow my footsteps or would want to see Wike were all coming here. So, that’s how the journey has been to where we are now.  For you to be recruited to work with Wike, there must be something he saw in you. What is it that you think endeared you to the governor? Wike is a person who is very articulate and he is a politician who instills new sprit of the times and promotes fresh commitment to the values of efficient performance.  Whatever he is doing, solutions to problems are prescribed within a framework of a more ideological perspective, and he does it with a conscious and supreme patriotic commitment to ensure that he harnesses available scarce resources to attain a developmental growth perspective. A dancer doesn’t see his back, it is difficult for one to say whom I am, but in this state people know that I am a politician that can make or mar and I am also a politician that can add value. Once I take a political decision, you must know that value has come. Your reporter in Port Harcourt has been here. When I was senior special assistant to Governor Peter Odili on Media, Special Duties and Strategy, I brought tremendous change. Wike doesn’t have the type of opposition Odili had. Odili had serious opposition; there were heavy politicians in the state that were against Odili. So, when Odili thought that he needed that young man who worked with Awuse to come over, we went over and we changed all that. First was to reach out to the enemies. All the journalists that were against, we had to reach them. I knew many of them when I wanted to re-arrange Odili’s image in the state. Now, for Wike you don’t need much of that because he is selling himself. He has done very well in the state. At my age in this state and in the politics of Rivers State, we have never got to the level where a governor is liked beyond his party. In this state, I am not boasting, Wike is loved beyond his party; even those who are supposed to be his archenemy, they love him. They love him because what he is putting on ground is not for one person. You know Senate President Bukola Saraki was talking about the road leading to the airport; it is not only PDP that will pass it. Wike is calculative; he was prepared; adequately ready and sufficiently prepared to come to manage the state. I believe strongly and a lot of our people also believe, from what they say, that since I came the narratives have also changed because in political media management, it is not a reporter’s work. So the governor finished addressing a crowd and his chief press secretary issued a release; that is just one percent (very insignificant) of the media management of the governor; that is what I do as adviser on Political Matters and Strategy. The strategy part of it is to turn around what Wike has said or what people have said about him or have not even said. That you can call propaganda. Propaganda is a weapon of war. It should be used when it is necessary and can assist your purpose. So, what I am doing is more of political media management. Wike finishes a ceremony and I sit back in my office and go through what he has said and see what I can pick out or what people have said. So, if it is only the release by the Chief Press Secretary, some important points may be lost inside the release. So, I pick such points and give them prominence in such a way that people can see them. So, I look at the release and see which area that I can pick that can catch the fancy of both friends and foes. So, if there is any weapon that I have, without being said to be blowing my trumpet, it is that area that I bring my value. I am not a journalist. I am an accountant and a lawyer, but I am gifted to writing. So, if that flair is what attracted anybody, so be it.  Rivers State is a political hotbed with the violence that goes with it. How have you survived the violence in the state as a political actor? First of all, we don’t actually experience what people over where you stay in Lagos and Abuja think. Politics itself is made up of two important components – one is conspiracy, the other one is aggression. Now, the conspiracy aspect of it is intelligence. In the course of wanting people to appreciate your views and how you want it, you may be aggressive. It does not amount to violence as such. But here, we love ourselves. It is a small place. Those who have been here know that we are the most accommodative in this country, with due respect to other places. This is a place where you can live and nobody will know where you come from. We don’t speak one dialect; there’s no single dialect in Rivers. The Ikwerres are the most prominent people, close to about 63 percent of the total voting strength of Rivers State. You have the Ogonis that are second to the Ikwerres, and others. We love ourselves. What is close to what you are saying is that prior to Wike’s time there was this Upland-Riverine dichotomy. What Wike did was to study the real problem of the state, which is this division, and he brought everybody together. The highest number of political actors, valuable, utility politicians in Rivers State, are in PDP and they are with Wike; that’s why you see them all together anywhere we go; and that’s why we call them the Cardinals. What Wike did was to cement the bond of fraternal coexistence and he has broken all the barriers of ethnocentric separatism in this town (Port Harcourt) and nobody wants to know where he is from; because he is dealing with everybody equally. The way he would treat an Ikwerre man if he does something wrong, you would be surprised, is the same way he would deal with a Calabari man who would do something wrong. If I do something good, he would give me everything that goes with a man who has done well; the same way he would give to a Calabari, Bonny, Opobo, or Ogoni person who has done something well. I think that is one characteristic of him that has changed the narrative in Rivers State. So, I would not go with you that we have suffered violence in the name of politics. Anybody that is talking about violence does not live here. You know some people are living in Lagos and Abuja; they don’t have houses here; they didn’t bother to build houses here. This is my house (where the interview took place) and I have the same house in the village. So, I cannot do anything that would make me to come here and see that they have burnt this house or the one at home. But if I did not have a house here in Port Harcourt or in my village, not even a bungalow, then I would not mind what happens to the people of Rivers State. But we don’t behave like that. Wike has shown us love and we need to appreciate him for what he has done for our people.  2019 is knocking; what are your expectations in terms of the possibility of a second term for Governor Wike? Fortunately, not me alone; I have always said that there is no alternative to Wike in 2019 in Rivers State; and since I said it, that has been corroborated by a lot of people. I read about a group known as the Support Popular View Group; I read about a group called Wike Solidarity Movement; I read about Wike for Positive Change; National Association of Rivers Daughters; Grassroots Development Initiative (GDI); National Ex-Councillors Forum, Rivers State chapter. It is uncountable the number of associations that are following over one another to appreciate that there is no alternative to Wike in 2019. What he has done, what is on ground now is sufficient to convince anybody that there is no vacancy in the Government House for 2019. Even Amaechi has acknowledged that, even though he turned around to claim that the projects are his own. In any case, every project that Wike commissioned has two pictures – the old state of such project and the new state. You see, you don’t tell a blind man that there is no pepper and salt in the soup; you can only say there’s no oil because he cannot see. That’s why we are confident. We are very confident that come rain, come shine, Wike will defeat anybody, no matter where such a person may be coming from. After his tenure, if the person who succeeds him doesn’t have his energy and intelligence, then that is not his problem. Governor Wike goes to bed by 2 am or 3 am, sometimes 4 am. He gets up at 8 am or 10 am. And there’s no timeframe for closing once he resumes for the day. I have worked with four governors in this state. I worked with two military governors and two civilian governors, so I can tell you that, not because I am working for him. Wike himself knows that if he is not doing well, I would say so. I am not looking for anything as such; nobody is self-sufficient, but I can say my mind. Your reporter here in Port Harcourt knows that I say my mind. What I tell you about Wike is what anybody who is honest or who understands governance (democratic governance) will tell you. Even if it is simple corporate governance – which is the boardroom politics – Wike was prepared. He prepared himself for it. It is not just overnight he developed it. Everything he is doing he gives it a lot of thought and that is why it is difficult to find his type at the moment. Mao Zedona (former Chairman of the Communist Party of China) said that the wisdom he has is the wisdom of the entire Chinese people but given to him to hold. If he manages well, China will be great; if he doesn’t, China will be ruined. Today, you are seeing all over the place, made in China. It is because of the way the wisdom was properly managed for the benefit of China. Today, Wike is holding the brain of the entire Rivers people God put in his hand now; it came at the right time, when the state was in dire need of good leadership. That is why everything that he is doing is going his way. That’s why somebody was singing the other day, ‘Everywhere you go na so so progress; as you carry Rivers State turn it to good, we will follow you to promised land’. A musician was saying that few days ago and that is exactly what it is. That’s why I said and I would continue to say it, it doesn’t matter what anybody would say, there’s no alternative to him now.  But how optimistic are you that the election will count? In our state, anybody who attempts otherwise is looking for trouble. How many can they kill? In Rivers we sing, ‘How many dem dey; why we no go win them?’ But beyond that how many people will they kill in this state when the greater portion of the state are united behind Governor Nyesom Wike? How many will you kill? Kill everybody, because the people will vote for him. What he is doing is for everybody to benefit.  Does it mean you don’t see any formidable opposition in 2019? There’s none. Ok, which one is opposition? Is it Magnus Abe’s camp? Is it Amaechi’s camp? Is it Bapakuye Bipi’s camp? Is it Chidi Wilioka’s camp? There is the APC; so, which of the camp is he contending with? You know, when God wants to help a people, he brings one of his own to salvage them; that’s what God has done for the state. This state is the highest producer of oil and gas for the country, but we are not developing because the Federal Government has never looked our way. But within three years, Wike has done what Amaechi couldn’t do for eight years. Wike has done what Odili could not do for eight years. Odili himself, at a public function, told Rivers people that Wike has done what he couldn’t do for eight years. If you go to Ndoni where Odili comes from, he also acknowledged to them in a public function, the shores of the Atlantic Ocean are eating into the town, but Wike gave a contract to do the embankment – several kilometres round. So, Ndoni people, will they be looking at Amaechi or they will be looking at Wike? Odili is solidly behind Wike; he is one of the pillars of this government and that’s why I said it will be difficult; it will be impossible; it will be like camel passing through the eye of a needle for anybody in any party, born of man and woman in this country, at the moment to defeat Wike. When he finishes, whoever that takes over from him, if he is not able to have his capacity, anything can happen. But for now, nobody can defeat him.  How does His Excellency see the opposition? Does he see them as people to win over or people to push over? No, he doesn’t see them as people to push over. I was in the opposition but he brought me in. If he is a man who ignores the opposition or who pushes the opposition over, he would not bring me in. I know what we passed through for me to be in both sides – I mean, long talk. So, he believes that anybody who is available should be available. He even challenges PDP leaders to ensure that the dividends of democracy go round. He told them, ‘If you chop alone, you die alone’. He challenges them to open their house and receive people. So, he is available; he is free. Even if Amaechi comes tomorrow and says, ‘My brother, I am tired; let us work together’, that would be it. Wike does not dismiss anybody; he receives as many that would want to come but he is careful. He is one of the most technical politicians you have in town. He is brilliant; he looks beyond the fence; he sees ahead. He understands very well the dynamism and mechanism of politics and he can plot it. He does not believe that there is failure. He doesn’t believe that what he is going to do tomorrow will fail. No, if you look at his profile you will know: former local government chairman, he became national chairman of ALGON, he became Chief of Staff, minister; he came back and became governor under very difficult circumstances. So, there’s no door he believes that cannot open. No, for him everything is possible. And that’s why we believe that there is no alternative to Wike in 2019.  In recent times, the Rivers State government ran a sustained advert campaign in many newspapers on a security personnel who was said to have played some sinister roles in an electoral process in the state. How far have you gone with that situation now or has everything been sorted out? Again, how do you mitigate the recurrence of such situations as we go into the 2019 elections? For Governor Wike, whenever he sees anything that ought to be known by the public, he lets them know. The much he can do is to let them know. When that incident happened, it wasn’t a secret thing; it was televised. It’s just that Nigerians don’t dwell on issues for a long time. When something happens now, and tomorrow there’s another thing, that takes the former to the backdoor and they forget. It was an open thing Wike himself would have forgotten it; but God was wonderful. The activities of the young police office did not in any way perturb him after he had spoken his mind, but INEC on its own did a report and cried that something extraneous happened. Somebody who is not part of their system came into the system and committed havoc on their staff. He didn’t commit on the Rivers State workers, but on INEC staff and Wike owes the public a duty to let them know. That was what he did. He has done it; it is up to those who have the responsibility to their conscience to look at it. He has informed them what the INEC has written. The INEC report is open for everybody to read; it is on the internet. So, for us we believe that in every political process, there will be storms here and there but the ability to manage and wade through the storms makes you a better politician and like I told you before, Wike does not believe in failure. These storms are there; they must come. But Wike has the capacity to manage and withstand them; and this has transcended to all of us who are his followers. So, when he speaks, he activates us to believe that, that is what it is supposed to be. Wike is a very courageous young man and thank God for the opportunity that he gave to us that we have one among us that can come to talk to us and we get more energetic.  Many Nigerians are increasingly becoming indifferent to elections in the country. This is evident in the number of unclaimed PVCs being declared by INEC across the country, the reason being that they say that their votes no longer count. What advice do you have for the Nigerian electorate as we go into the election? Democracy is a very dynamic game; it is a progressive game. It is not Mathematics where one plus one is equal to two. So, it is a game that has to progress over time; even the civilized world that has been practicing it, they also experience it. I have a book written by a former Chief of Staff to President Nixon (former President of America). He said what matters in America is not the vote, but those who count it. When I read it, I said to myself, so if what matters in America is not the vote but those who count it, it means that what we are experiencing here today is not new; they also passed through it many years ago but over time they got over it and got stabilized. I believe that Nigeria will get stabilized if they take very positive decisions. One of such positive decisions, not that any government is perfect, but what we are seeing in the APC government in Nigeria is never seen anywhere. Look at Bukola Saraki. As students we read about his father; we even read about him as former governor and now Senate president, you accuse him of stealing N17 million by way of armed robbery and breaking banks. Even if you said that to my grandchild, he would not believe it because it doesn’t make any sense. That young man, what his father has put on ground can feed him, not to talk about the one he put by himself. That’s just one example of several others why Nigerians are getting to the point of imagining that our democracy will not grow. But I think it will grow. The decision taken by the 40 political parties to work together in 2019 is the step to growing democracy. Even in the military; when a military government is not doing well, another group of military officers change them; is it not so? In democracy, when a group of democratic leaders are not doing well, another group of democratic leaders change them; that’s what the political parties did the other day. That singular action of signing that memorandum of understanding (MOU) is about 90 percent of removing Buhari and APC. Chairmen of 40 parties agreed in Nigeria, and met, and signed a document to say, ‘We are tired of APC’. If it were in the civilized world, that same day while they were singing the MOU, the president would have resigned. I think that we would make progress. Whatever error PDP may have committed, I think Nigerians are seeing something that is beyond error. It is said that when you marry two wives, you know the better one. But here in this dispensation, you have to travel to 36 states and Abuja and talk and talk, exhaust your saliva and energy before you can convince people to vote for you. When you get there, you also spend and waste much more saliva to be able to convince them that you are doing what you said you would do. So, whether (former President) Jonathan was good or bad, I think this is the worst we have ever seen and since it is the worst we have seen, people are resolved to take back their country. It appears that Buhari and APC do not even know the problem of Nigeria; so they cannot come up with any solution. But before Buhari came in, he enumerated the problems, which means he has taken a study of it, but from what is happening it means he didn’t do any study; he just came to hold power and nothing more; the type he did when he was military head of state carrying gun and shooting and taking over. That’s not how this one is done. This one, you have used your mouth to kill yourself by what you said you would do, yet you can’t do. In the military, you take over power by making one sentence – Dear countrymen. The people are not better than what they were before; you take over. One sentence which one that is better. Now that Nigerians have seen the two, they have to make a choice and the choice is coming on a platter of gold, because Buhari has made it very easy for PDP to come back. If he had performed, they would not come back soon. It is a matter of days now and PDP will get back to office.