Amidst a most stunning ambiance, the 23rd  edition of Federation of International Football Associations, FIFA, World Cup, tagged Russia 2018, came to a scintillating close on Sunday, July 15 at the 81,000-capacity Luzhniki Stadium, Moscow. The final match between France and Croatia was as impressive, action packed and spectacular as almost all the 64 matches witnessed at Russia 2018. In the match, the French national team came top by trashing a resilient Croatian side 4-2. With this victory, France has now recorded a second World Cup triumph. Interestingly, the victory has equally put French coach, Didier Dechamps, in the league of Brazilian Mario Zagallo and German Franz Beckenbauer as those who have won the World Cup as both a player and a manager. The 2018 Russia World Cup is particularly unique in many ways. The introduction of the controversial VAR (Video Assistance Referees) at the tournament makes it the first time that technology would be employed to assist referees in making crucial decisions. VAR has been seen by many as necessary to ensure in order to reduce human errors in officiating. Russia 2018 was also almost flawless in organization. Prior to the competition, many have doubted the ability of Russia to host a memorable and World Cup. But events of the past month seem to have proved cynics wrong as the Russians have not only hosted a great Mundial, but have also razzmatazz the whole world as regards the exquisiteness of their country. In terms of security and safety concerns, Russia 2018 also proved to be an incredible event. Initially, many expressed reservation about the safety of visiting soccer fans at Russia. As things eventually turned out, there was no major security breach worthy of note throughout the competition. Fans’ hooliganism was completely out of the equation. The usually cantankerous German and English soccer fans strangely turned a new leaf at the Mundial. Hence, at Russia 2018, worry over fans hooliganism was simply not a major concern. On the pitch, more than ever before, Russia 2018 has shown that football is more of a team event, and as such, individual brilliance and talents no longer count for much. For instance, the Croatian, Japanese, Korean, Iceland and a few other national teams that came up with a closely knitted side thoroughly passed home the message that football is more about how well a team plays together as a unit. In particular, the Croatian team amply exemplified teamwork as a major base for success in football as it got to the final not on the basis of the individuality of its players, but on the strength of joint effort. Unlike the Brazilians, Argentines and other such teams that depended mostly on the strength of their individual players to thrive at the championship, the Croatian team is an amazing study in team solidarity and group effectiveness. Russia 2018 also sufficiently demonstrated to the soccer world that the days when so called bigger soccer nations could just stroll into a major soccer championship in sheer arrogance, expecting unhindered success, might be over for now. At the Mundial, big footballing nations such as Germany, Argentina, Spain and Brazil got the shock of a lifetime as they all unceremoniously exited the competition when it was least expected. As for the English team, which most pundits agreed actually over achieved at the Mundial, it becomes quite clearer that if football were to ultimately come home, as it was excitedly chorused by English fans in the course of the competition, it would be through sterling (unfortunately English Raheem Sterling didn’t come to the party at Russia) performances on the pitch. Not through overly over hyped media crusade. Back home, the pains of the Super Eagles’ disappointing outing at the Mundial have since subsided. Sadly, we don’t seem to have learnt much from our below par show as the nation’s football house is once again being immersed in needless leadership squabbles that portend great danger for our football. Regrettably, appropriate authorities seem not to be managing current footballing crisis with required tact and speed. Characteristically, it is only when FIFA hammer comes dangling that those concerned would start running helter-skelter. Meanwhile, congratulations to France for deservedly winning the World Cup and also kudos to Russia for hosting an amazing Mundial. As the soccer world awaits what Qatar has to offer in 2022, football fans would continue to relish and savour some of the most astounding memories of Russia 2018. One of such, for me, is the image of dashing Croatia President, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović tenderly patting France President, Emmanuel Macron on the head at the final. On the sight of the noticeable Macron-Kitarović show, a naughty commentator said: “What Russia has joined together”. One could not but chuckle at the prospect of such amusing remark.  Goodbye Russia 2018! 