Nuruddeen Rafindadi, MD/CEO, Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA),  has pledged support for the Special Presidential Investigation Panel on recovery of public property, in its bid to fight corruption, in line with the anti-graft law of the federation. Rafindadi gave the assurance during an interactive session with Okoi Obono-Obla, chairman and other members of the Committee during a working visit to the agency. Welcoming the team, the MD stated that the Agency was aware of the enormous task before her and that it was a privilege to have a partnership with the special presidential investigation panel on recovery of public property. This, he said will facilitate the effective monitoring of the process of awarding contracts, ensuring that contractors bidding for contracts have the expertise to meet with the acceptable standard, to reflect the judicious use of the money released by the government. In his remarks, Obono-Obla explained that the visit visit was to acquaint the agency of its activities and to extend a hand of partnership to FERMA, being a sole maintenance outfit of federal roads
in the country. According to him, the activities of the panel include: investigation of public officers that are involved in corrupt practices; investigation of public officers that have not declared their assets according to the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended); investigation of individuals/private companies who have contributed adversely to the development of the country among others. While commending FERMA for its efficiency in carrying out its duties and for its recent intervention in rehabilitating federal roads across the nation, Obono-Obla applauded the agency’s efforts toward empowering the youth through its direct labour works. The Special Presidential Investigation Panel for recovery of public property was constituted by the then Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo in August 2017, in accordance to a law known as recovery of
public property (Special Provisions Act) which is one of the oldest anti-corruption legislation in the country. According to him, the intent of the law according to him, was to fight corruption, improve transparency and accountability in public offices.