The Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) has organised an export awareness seminar for 100 exporters and potential exporters in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital. Speaking at the event, Andrew Okhiulu, trade promotion adviser, NEPC, Kwara State, said the programme was aimed at sensitising and training exporters and potential exporters on the nitty-gritty of the procedures, terms and rules of export business, in a bid to enhance exporting activities across various states in the federation. “We are looking at encouraging people to participate in the export business, thereby generating more income for the country and improving our balance of payment. This is because these products being exported are showcasing the quality that we have,” Okhiulu said. “We also discovered that we are improving the qualities of our products because they are competing with other products outside the country,” he stated. He noted that doing export increases foreign exchange and income, while also improving the economy. “We are creating more employment for entrepreneurs, small and medium scale enterprises and other businesses in that category,” Okhiulu stressed. According to him, Kwara State is endowed with many mineral resources that can be transformed for export to make more income for the state and individuals.  “Kwara State is the highest in terms of cashew production. The derivatives from cashew alone are enormous. The state is also the highest producer of soya beans and these are two notable products apart from maize and cassava. “We also have a very large terrain of arable land that can be used to cultivate some of these products and enhance export. We are trying to drive a system where we can have producers (farmers), processors and exporting the value chain products,” he added. In his submission, Babatunde Agboola Kwara State commissioner of commerce and cooperatives, urged local exporters to approach government agencies on assistance to enhance their activities.  He called on entrepreneurs to use the opportunity available, as the state is blessed with abundant resources. He stressed the need for entrepreneurs to be part of the export value chain. A cross section of the participants who spoke with journalists lauded the organisers for the timely programme as they promised to seek  their technical advice regarding export businesses.  