The Lagos State Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) recently held the fourth edition of its Information, Communication, Technology and Telecommunications (ICTEL) expo where stakeholders were engaged in discussions and suggestions on how to tap into huge investment opportunities in Nigeria’s ICT industry. The event which held in Lagos on the 25th and 26th of July 2018, themed Developing Efficiency and Competitiveness in the Digital age’ brought together key players in Nigeria’s ICT sector to discuss further development of the economy leveraging ICT. In his welcome remark, Babatunde Paul Ruwase, President, LCCI, said that the expo is a credible platform to advance the opportunity and linkages in the world of ICT. “The fact is that ICT has become the backbone of most businesses and we see great investment opportunities coming from closer interactions and business integration among ICT players and their customers. There is no better time to harness the benefits of ICT than now when the Nigerian economy is in dire need of diversification and sustainable recovery,” Ruwase said. Information and communication technology sector has continued to drive entrepreneurship, innovation and sustainable business models in Nigeria and beyond. The expo highlighted benefits of ICT in various sectors of the economy, and the need for technology driven services in businesses. “Today, virtually all sectors leverage ICT for optimal performance. This is evident in the financial sector, where electronic banking is the new vogue; the agricultural sector, where government allocates farm input through mobile phones to farmers; the consumer goods sector, where online stores and e-commerce has brought an incredible transformation to retail business; the medical sciences, where ICT applications are now being widely used for efficiency and many more,” Ruwase said. Urging the government and the private sector players, he said that exploring Public-private-partnership model to mobilise needed investments for ICT infrastructure would be key to growth of the sector. In his keynote speech, Adebayo Shittu, Minister of Communications reflected on the theme of the event, stating that the expo heralds a new dawn in Nigeria’s collective gravitation toward developing efficiency and competitiveness in the digital age. Shittu said that the federal government is committed to supporting digital economy and the ICT sector in its laudable endeavor and vision to bridge the gap between Nigeria and developed nations with ICT. Represented by Monisola Udoh, Director of ICT, Federal Ministry of Communications, the Minister said that the Minstry will ensure protection of companies and organisations through regulations and other means. “We will assist ICT companies to grow. We have accepted that Nigeria must take leadership in Africa’s ICT ecosystem. Therefore, we are amendable to public, private partnerships to drive the Ministry’s project,” he said.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 