The decision of the Senate to go on a recess a few days after President Muhammadu Buhari submitted a supplementary budget for funding the 2019 elections has left the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) walking a tightrope.
President Buhari on July 17 submitted a N254 billion budget which is what is required to ensure an election holds in February 2019, just about seven months away. But even before the budget could be considered, the Senate announced on July 24 that it is adjourning plenary until September 25, when it will just be five months before the general election.
The commission is now worried on how it would fund its preparation for the national elections.
The Chairman of the INEC, Mahmoud Yakub expressed his concern at a retreat held on 28 July organized by State House Correspondents on “Covering Election Campaigns” at the Epe Resort, Epe, Lagos.
Speaking at the retreat, Mahmoud Yakubu who represented by the Lagos Resident Electoral Commissioner, Samuel Olumeku, said the Commission was facing funding challenge ahead of the 2019 elections but assured that the Commission will have to seek other sources of funding to ensure that its preparations for the elections does not grind to a halt
“As you know, our procurement process is very cumbersome and to make a procurement, it may take up to four months and this may affect what we are doing at INEC. But we may be forced to look at other sources of funding so that our preparation for the 2019 election is not affected”
He did not explain what other sources of funding INEC will be tapping into to fund the elections. Before the adjournment by the senate, there were already concerns that the request by President Buhari that the National Assembly take money already allocated to constituency projects to fund the elections could be a challenge as this was expected to be resisted by the law makers.
The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had issued a statement on July 18 saying that President Buhari’s request to the National Assembly to vire N242 billion already approved for other projects in the 2018 budget to finance the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and other agencies, was a plot to frustrate the 2019 general elections.
PDP said that was a booby trap deliberately set to drag the elections into financial controversy and ultimately subvert the entire process.
“This request is a deliberate plot to inject disagreements in the polity, cause confusion in the electoral system and set the stage for a political crisis capable of frustrating the conduct of the elections” Kola Ologbondiyan, PDP National Publicity Secretary said.
Now things have even become more complicated in the National Assembly following the defections of 13 senators from the ruling APC to the opposition parties. This could mean that Buhari would find it a bit more challenging pushing his requests through the national assembly with the PDP now the majority in the Senate.
Besides the concern over its budget, the Commission also expressed concern over the problem of vote buying which the INEC described as “worrisome”
Olumeku said “Votes buying has taken a frightening dimension” , but assured that INEC has put in place measures to tackle the challenge.
The INEC Chairman also lamented the non- assent to the 2018 amendment to the Electoral Act, a situation he said may make the organization to jettison the Act unless it comes into effect not later than six months to the election.
“Well, as you know, we work with rules and the 2018 Electoral Act is expected to guide the conduct of the 2019 general election, but we may not be able to use it unless it comes six months before the general election”
We need a budget to be able to run the election, any law that does not come into effect six months before the election cannot apply to the 2019 election.
On voter’s card cloning, he assured that such cards will be rejected by the smart card reader, adding that “you cannot vote with such cards”. The INEC Chairman advocated for a rejig on its election spending rules to include spending by individuals who want to support candidates “As it is now, as a person, you can spend any amount to support any candidate or political party but the law only allows INEC to scrutinize the books of the political parties” He also cautioned the media against sensitization of reports that tend to discourage voters from turning out to vote, especially as it affects heightening of security risks. “INEC lack facilities to print voters card at the spot of registration which is why it issues temporarily cards. Chairman of This Day Editorial Board, Segun Adeniyi who presented a paper on “Covering the Presidential Villa During Campaigns; Between Professional / Sentimental Interest” observed that reporters must maintain delicate balance between reporting the government and the opposition. He also urged reporters to avoid sensational reportage, including stories that have no attribution. “There are lots of information going on, do not allow anybody to use you” Adeniyi who recounted his experience both as reporter and later Special Adviser on Media and Publicity at the Presidential Villa, noted that reporters must be both accurate and objective in their repotting. “ You must Learn to control your emotions and be tactful in handling newsmakers and news. You won’t know the fight other people do on your behalf at the background. It won’t be a sweet story when you have to face the security.” “ The government just want to muzzle the Press, because they are in power today, they want to see themselves as the custodian of the national security” “Facts are sacred, while coments are free” There is nothing going on today that did not happen in 2015. Let Buhari go today and another person comes in, it will be the same for the new comer.” “People should not be so sentimental or emotional to the extent that you become part of the story. These politicians are all the same. Try as much as possible to be objective in your reporting. Many people get worked up for people they do not even know. “ “People get worked up for nothing, that is why we should have an open mind and it should not affect our friendship. People are entitled to their choices but we should be objective.” He admonished State House Correspondents to avoid the perks from coming from officials as it may affect the ways they work.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 