Companies have been raising debt through the FMDQ OTC platform at a record pace as N226 billion worth of commercial papers (CPs) have been issued since November alone. Analysts tell BusinessDay that Commercial papers are bank loans going directly to the market. This trend is expected to continue as more commercial papers are expected from Dangote Cement and Nigerian Breweries later this year.
Commercial Papers are short-term debt financing securities (no longer than 270 days in tenor) consisting of unsecured and discounted promissory notes, which can be readily traded.
Due to their relatively short maturity period, commercial papers are referred to as low-risk investments, offering competitive returns to investors in compensation for the issuer’s credit risk.
Companies have opted to go direct to debt investors rather than through banks as borrowing costs for bank loans start around 17 percent and above for prime borrowers compared to the lower cost of borrowing in commercial papers where yields currently average 15.6 percent.
Commercial paper yields are accessible at a cheaper rate despite the fact that firms are borrowing through commercial papers without collateral.
Already, some impact can be seen on the asset creation ability of the banks since this trend began last year. Tier 1 banks which account for around 50 percent of total industry loans have seen the pace of growth for their loan books shrink from 24.2 percent as at the first quarter (Q1) of 2017 to just 1.4 percent in Q1, 2018.
Although Tier 1 bank deposits have increased by around N1.69 trillion in the past year, the growth rate in new deposits have also slowed. Deposit growth rate fell from 18.6 percent in Q1, 2017 to 12.28 percent in Q1, 2018.
“Customers are becoming increasingly aware of higher investment opportunities in money market instruments like commercial papers and treasury bills,” said a top bank manager of one of the Tier 1 banks who craved anonymity.
“It is becoming more difficult for banks to keep deposits or find new ones as customers are now opting to invest long term deposits in high yielding money market instruments.”
“Banks that have continually seen a reduction in deposits are now trying to collaborate with fintechs to improve deposits by the use of USSD and direct deposits through Fintech operator accounts.” Fintech companies have become major players in the savings market.
Companies like ALAT, Cowrywise, Piggybank and Paylater are disrupting the savings market, raising billions in savings at higher interest rate than traditional banks are providing. Some of the Fintech companies are now even creating loans for customers, becoming more and more in direct competition with the traditional banks.
“If banks are finding it difficult to grow their loan book and their deposit base, it could affect their profitability,” said Vivian Alozie, research analyst at Capital Bancorp. “With treasury yields dropping, banks may have to rely on new loans to drive earnings growth this year.
“We are not too worried about bank profitability per se; rather we fear that earnings growth may slow down if this trend continues. Lower deposits will affect their ability to create credit which could translate to lower earnings from bank interest income.”
In June, Dangote Cement and Coronation Merchant Bank issued a combined N65 billion in fresh commercial papers.
Dangote Cement Plc’s N50 billion commercial papers is the biggest CP programme so far on the Nigeria debt capital market. The CP is a dual tenure issuance under the company’s N150 billion CP programme established in November, 2017. The CP comprises of N12.04 billion and N37.96 billion issuances and is series 1 & 2 under the N150 billion CP programme.
The series 1 and 2 notes is priced at spreads of 25 and 50 basis points over the chosen primary market sovereign benchmark rate, to achieve discount rates of 12.40 per cent and 12.65 per cent, respectively.
Coronation Merchant Bank Limited issued its first Commercial Paper on FMDQ worth around N15 billion. The offer is the first tranche, under its N100 billion Commercial Paper programme. It received a total of about N28 billion commitments from both institutional and high net-worth investors. The CP was oversubscribed by 180 per cent.
The issuance comprised of two series of 180 and 270-days, with 180-day paper issued at a discount rate of 12.6 per cent and a yield of 13.43 per cent, while the 270-day paper was issued at 12.69 per cent discount rate and a yield of 14 per cent.  Emeka Ucheaga, Sobechukwu Eze, Abdullateef Eniola-Giwa & Abimbola Hassan