Sometimes the wrong people get promoted. They might be deceitful and unscrupulously manipulative, or impulsive and thrill-seeking without any sense of guilt, or egotistically preoccupied with themselves. It can be frustrating for honest and humble people to watch these employees get ahead. Why, given their toxicity, do they rise through the ranks? How do such people manage to succeed?.  In a recent research study published in Personality and Individual Differences, I looked at the influence of political skill among employees. Political skill is defined as a positive social competence that helps people network, influence others, demonstrate social astuteness and appear sincere in their dealings with others.  I surveyed 110 employees in Singapore in a variety of industries and positions, asking them how they viewed their political skill in the workplace. I also determined their scores on the H-factor of personality. High scores indicate honesty and humility; low scores are associated with the trio of dark characteristics described above. Finally, I also surveyed these employees’ bosses.  I noticed that toxic employees whose political skills were highly rated by their supervisors were more likely to have a high performance rating. In other words, while not all toxic people possess political skill, those toxic people who use political skill effectively in the eyes of their bosses are seen as better performers. And as we all know, those who are seen as top performers are more likely to be promoted.  Is there a way to prevent toxic people from moving up? Organizational psychologists who are knowledgeable in personality and behavioral assessments may help identify toxic personalities early, but if the employee possesses political skill, this task is difficult.  If you are one of these honest and humble people who feel left out, this research suggests you can make a run for the same promotion by acquiring political skill. While demonstrating it is easier for some, it can be learned.  (Klaus J. Temple is an associate professor at the Singapore University of Social Sciences)