The cyclical stocks are rallying, leading other stocks on the Nigerian Stock Exchange Market (NSE) as the economy moves out of recession. Since the second quarter of 2017 after the Nigerian economy rebounded from recession, analysis reveals that 8 out of the 10 top best performers where cyclical stocks with Cement Company of Northern Nigerian Plc, C&I Leasing Plc and NEM Insurance Plc leading the charge. Data collated showing price changes of securities from Q2 2017 to date showed that CCNN led the chart with a price return of 567.8 percent. Other cyclical companies with positive price returns include; C&I (388 percent), NEM (287 percent) and FBN (242 percent) were among the top 5. This is a sharp contrast to the first quarter of 2016 to the beginning of the second quarter 2017 said to be the recession period, It was seen that among the 10 top performers on the NSE only 3 stocks namely United Capital Plc, United Bank for Africa and Guaranty and Trust Bank Plc were cyclical stocks. An analyst Businessday spoke to said that “a cyclical stock is an equity security whose price is affected by the ups and downs in the overall economy. Investors buy the stocks at the low point in the business cycle and sell them at the high point”. He added that they offer greater potential for growth because they tend to outperform the market during periods of economic strength. Tajudeen Ibrahim, head of Research at Chapel Hill Denham, on a phone call to Businessday said that “Cyclical stocks will do well during economic growth and expansion and when the country is in a trough, they would do otherwise, so their performance is just a reflection of the economy which would reflect in their numbers. On further analysis of the top losers, the period in which the country was undergoing a recession 6 of the 10 least performers were cyclical goods. Some of the stocks that performed the least are; Diamond Bank Plc, Skype Bank and UACN property development Company with a negative return of 63.04, 68.35 and 73.23 percent respectively. Speaking on what investors would see in the nearest future Ibrahim opines that “there is still some head room in their performance as economic growth is meant to improve in subsequent quarters in the economy”. With what the central bank CBN in the Foreign exchange market which has resulted in a stable fx rate and their plans to support employment elastic sectors by helping a steady flow of credit from banks at a cheap rate he went on to say, concluding that the recovery so far is just a beginning as from all indication there are better days ahead.  Sobechukwu Eze & David Ibidapo 