Debt Management Office (DMO) will list N10.69billion, five-year tenor, Federal Government Sovereign Green Bond at coupon rate of 13.48% on the Daily Official List of the NSE on Friday, July 20, 2018 as stated by NSE. Green bonds are fixed income, liquid financial instruments used to raise funds dedicated to climate mitigation, adaptation and other environment-friendly projects. This provides investors with an attractive investment proposition and an opportunity to support environmentally and socially sound projects. Nigeria had their sovereign green bond rated December 2017 by Moody’s investor service (“Moody’s”), rating it “GB1” (Excellent), the highest possible rating. The GB1 grade is supported by a full allocation of proceeds to renewable energy and afforestation projects that qualify under Nigeria’s domestic green bond guidelines and international green bond taxonomies, including the Green Bond Principles and Climate Bond Initiative’s (CBI) Climate Bond Standard. The projects financed through the green notes will also support the country’s national commitments to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The government has received pre-issuance assurance from an independent verifier (DNV GL) that the green notes are compliant with the CBI’s Climate Bond Standard Version 2.1. The issuer expects to receive a formal certification letter from the CBI. According to Moody’s, Nigerian authorities have adopted a clear internal process and formal set of administrative policies designed to manage the segregation and tracking of green bond proceeds. This includes the creation of a centralized Green Bonds Proceeds Account held at the Central Bank of Nigeria, and individual sub-accounts for specific environmental projects. By creating a new market for climate finance through green bonds, governments can help build a more resilient future in the face of a changing climate. Sovereign green bonds also represent another way for governments to play their part in moving towards a green economy. FGN Bonds are debt securities of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) issued by the Debt Management Office (DMO) for and on behalf of the federal government. The FGN has an obligation to pay the bondholder the principal and agreed interest as and when due. The FGN Bonds are considered as the safest of all investments in domestic debt market because it is backed by the ‘full faith and credit’ of the federal government, and as such it is classified as a risk free debt instruments. In December 2017, the federal government through the DMO raised as much as N10.69bn ($29m), making Africa’s biggest oil producer to become the first on the continent and fourth in the world after Poland, France and Fiji to issue a security that raises funds for environmental projects. In December 2017, the DMO issued the maiden FGN Green Bond which is also the first to be issued by an African sovereign. “In preparation for Africa’s maiden sovereign green bond, the Government of Nigeria has put in place a comprehensive governance structure and framework that is aligned with the country’s domestic green bond guidelines and international best practices,” says Rahul Ghosh, a Moody’s Senior Vice President. Nigeria has been actively engaged in international climate policy negotiations since it became a Party to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in 1994, and is a signatory to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. The stock exchanges of London, Luxembourg, Singapore, Oslo, Mexico, Stockholm and Italy all have dedicated green bond boards.