President Muhammadu Buhari has called for harmonious working relationship between the Executive and the Legislature.  This, the President explained, would put an end to the face-off between both arms of government.  Buhari stated this on Monday at the maiden National Assembly Open Week in Abuja.  Since the President signed the controversial N9.120 trillion 2018 budget into law last month, this is the first major meeting between the Executive and the Legislature.  While signing the budget, Buhari had accused federal lawmakers of making reductions amounting to N347 billion in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introducing 6,403 projects worth N578 billion.  Represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, he said it was regrettable that the Executive-Legislative collaboration was not reflected on time to approve the budget.  He stressed the need for more harmonious working relationship between the Executive and the Legislature in other to  deliver peace, security, and sustainable development to all Nigerians.  His words: “I must also mention that government has noted the detailed response to the issues raised at the signing ceremony of the 2018 Appropriation Bill.  The point to underscore firmly is that, a stronger and more cordial Executive-Legislative relationship must exist in the interest of the nation and the people that elected us into office. It must be a win-win situation for all Nigerians.  “The importance of oversight activities of the Legislature to ensure efficient, equitable and the judicious use of resources to bring about delivery of service by the Executive cannot be overemphasized. Operationally, this involves visits by members of the relevant Committees to the project sites of the MDAs under their purview and in addition may involve holding public hearings in order to deepen understanding, appreciate the opportunities and challenges and  subsequently agree on areas requiring legislative intervention and other forms of support/advocacy by the legislature. It is the expectation of this administration that the processes of over sight would be given adequate time for discussion during the week in other to fine tune it.  “The Nigerian Constitution has clearly enshrined the principles of separation of powers. I wish to state that since my assumption in office in May 2015, I have maintained a position that favor and supports the true independence of the various arms of government, including National Assembly, perhaps, more than any administration in this country.  You are all aware of my open commitment to working with any set of leadership of the National Assembly that emerges, and I have remained true to it. This commitment is expected to take us beyond politics when dealing with the wellbeing of our citizens. We must continue to demonstrate our resolve to work harmoniously, while respecting the principles of separation of powers”.  In veiled reference to the recently signed Executive Order Number 6, which gives law enforcement agencies the power to seize and freeze the assets of any person against whom allegations of corruption have been made, pending the outcome of investigations, the President restated his commitment to bringing corruption to a total stop in Nigeria.  “There is indeed nothing to celebrate about corruption and nothing to commend about those who are corrupt.  Glorious days of our dear country have been rolled back due to corruption. Let us therefore, collectively stand to ensure that corruption does not deny us the bright future ahead,” he added.  Already, the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, is expected to appear before both chambers of the National Assembly over the controversial Order.  This resolutions were sequel to motions moved and adopted in the two chambers.  Lawmakers had raised the alarm over the increasing cases of alleged human rights violations and consistent assault on the provisions of the 1999 Constitution by the Executive, describing the Order as usurping the functions of the Legislature and the Judiciary.  