While Okonjo-Iweala is still being showered with praises, some are yet to forget Adeosun’s certificate saga. It’s been twenty-one days since the news of the alleged forgery of her NYSC certificate made headlines, and raised dust from all nooks of Nigeria, yet, Kemi Adeosun, the minister of finance has remained resolute and steadfast in her unwavering silence. Since Nigerians got a hint of the authenticity status of the minister’s certificate which is a paramount document for any public and private employment, there has been a heightened eagerness to hear from her, either giving reasons as to why she skipped the mandatory one year national youth service, or at least, defend herself by refuting the allegations made against her. But Adesoun may have flared up hearts who find her silence irritating. And they cannot bear it anymore. Chukwunonso-Shalom who describes himself as a customer servant, entrepreneur said; “I can assure you that the Government will soon come out with an explanation or possibly more killings will occur in Benue to divert attention. Let us keep asking her and the Government of Muhammadu Buhari till they respond”. “Kemi Adeosun ought to speak or resign. Really. The silence is disgusting,” Japhet Omojuwa,” chief strategist, Alpha Reach. Commenting in both English and Pidgin English, Lekan said, “there is no NYSC certificate because she no get. She told them initially but the boys said she shouldn’t worry that they were going to take care of it. Even NASS and DSS know say she no get, And since NASS money dey complete, there is no problem”. Adetunji Adeniran, a consultant said, “I suggest Premium Times takes a more civil approach. Rather than media trial. What about they get a court injunction if they’re sure? If she responds to every media house, what time does she have to do her work?” For Samson Oloyede, a promoter of urban and rural development, what “…NYSC already said she applied for an exemption certificate. Therefore, she needs to reply only to NYSC. That’s why a good leader should have a thick skin not to respond to any unnecessary allegations which are not based on fact. Am sure she will respond if NYSC or court summons her. But for now, anyone with their false allegations are irrelevant”. According to Christopher Ogirri‏ “She is deceitful psychopath working for a government that is filled with deranged and deceitful people. She is doing the needful. She is doing the expected.” Igbokwe Ikechukwu says “Forget these people. When the president hasn’t got a school cert, what do you expect? Birds of same feather, they flock together. In the words of Edward Obi-Akpere, “This silence suggests that the Buhari camp and NYSC camp are working on an alternate NYSC discharge certificate for Kemi Adeosun.” While Buhari is yet to comment on the scandal, the police has said that it can neither arrest nor investigate the minister’s alleged forgery because there is no formal complaint against her.  Desmond Okon 