Alex Otti, governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in 2015 election in Abia State, has said that what Olisa Metu, former national publicity secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is currently going through was predicated on the monumental fraud he committed in Abia State during the election. Otti stated this at Ngwa High School, Aba, Abia State when he formally declared his intention to contest the 2019 governorship election in the state on the platform of APGA. He said that what happened in Abia during the 2015 election was daylight robbery which was principally perpetrated by Olisa Metu who is now facing the nemesis. The governorship aspirant alleged that PDP manipulated the election in Osisioma and Obingwa Local Government Areas at two polling booths by inflating the votes to the tune of 40,000 and 83,000, respectively. “Metu saw me in Lagos and asked me to forgive him for all he perpetrated is like a curse to him now. If T.A. Orji comes for forgiveness, I will consider whether to forgive him or not.” “I came out in 2015 to challenge a sitting governor and I won him,” said Otti. He noted that Abians were having the toughest time in their life and vowed to liberate them from the shackles of Orji who he alleged was still on the throne. “Abia state is not a personal property. It belongs to Abians not T.A. Orji. Orji is still on the throne and people are sorry and crying for Abians. Abia is going to be liberated under my watch. I weep for Abia. It will not be well sitting on workers’ salaries and pensioners’ entitlements while they are suffering,” he added. Otti said he was a bonafide son of Ngwa land, adding that the issue of non-indigene was over. Victor Umeh (senator) while presenting Otti during the occasion said APGA did not need people like Rochas Okorocha who he alleged was a betrayer. He described Otti as seasoned administrator who had garnered vast experience over the years, adding that he would right the wrongs and attract investors to Abia State. “When Alex takes over, what is happening in Anambra will be replicated here in Abia. We wanted a similar thing to happen in Imo. Okorocha disappointed us after all promises. Otti has the character, the will power and fear of God. I appeal to all to ensure he wins in 2019 election,” Umeh said.  UDOKA AGWU, UMUAHIA 