The Federal Government of Nigeria has expressed its readiness to partner with the Province of Hunan of the People’s Republic of China on seed production, agricultural training for youths and rural farmers to enhance the country’s rice production. Audu Ogbeh, Minister of agriculture, said this in a statement made available to BusinessDay this known on Wednesday. Ogbeh while highlighting China’s growth in agriculture, technology and machineries production in the last 35 years welcomed the Chinese partnership, saying that the country possesses rich experience and expertise in agriculture which Nigeria can tap to enhance its quest for improved seed development, mechanization and tissue culture. He observed that China has made tremendous achievements in rice research and therefore called for assistance in these areas. The Minister particularly made a case for requisite training of young people and rural farmers to aid cultivation of over 45 million hectares of land for enhanced food production, the statement said. Idris Mamman, acting permanent secretary, thanked the Chinese government for partnering with Nigeria at this point in time when the Federal Government is looking for avenues to grow Nigeria’s agricultural sector. He noted that the agriculture sector contributes 25 percent to Nigeria’s GDP of and cited the role which the sector played in bring the country out of recession. Earlier, Xu Da Zhe, the visiting Governor of the People’s Republic of Hunan Province, explained that the main objective of his visit to Nigeria is to develop partnership agreement with the country on agriculture and deepen friendship between the two countries. Da Zhe also stated that the implementation of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRT) programme initiated by Xi Jinping, Chinese President is on course as an instrument to foster, contribute to the development of Africa and further deepen bilateral relations with people and governments in Africa. He added that the BRT Initiative is also a development strategy aimed at enhancing cooperation and connectivity in order to play a bigger role in global affairs. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by the China government with the Kano and Jigawa State Governments.