Nigeria’s Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo may go down in history as the most vibrant political advocate for the tech ecosystem in Nigeria. He has shown in various ways that he truly cares about the growth of the space. The VP’s recent trip to Silicon Valley early July remains one of the most topical issues among stakeholders in the space. The goal of the visit, according to the Presidency, was to emphasise the Buhari administration’s policies such as the Ease of Doing Business reforms, which have improved the country’s ranking in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index 2017. In the course of the tour, Osinbajo visited CEOs like Sundar Pichai of Google and Allen Blue, co-founder of LinkedIn, over 20 “important” tech investors and some of the notable players in Hollywood such as Universal Studios, Warner Bros, 20th Century Fox, IMAX, and Disney. While many people had a lot to say about it, what have stand out is the increasing ambassadorial role the VP has taken to encourage players in the space. He has actively led from the front with programs such as N-Power which seeks to empower young people with innovative ideas. He has also led several delegations of investors to visit different innovative hubs across the country to see the potential of the burgeoning ecosystem. His interest and foreign trip to Silicon Valley while commendable, they do not negate the crushing struggle players in the space go through to access basic infrastructures such such as electricity and broadband. Silicon Valley investors may be looking for new frontiers to exploit, but like every investor they expect certain guarantees for success. A mere visit to convince them to invest will not force them to bring out cheque books for Nigerian startups. The VP can actually bring his office to address two major problems the ecosystem faces on a daily basis. Tech clusters weighed down by poor electricity access Many tech startups have suggested to the federal government to give electricity priority to tech clusters like Yaba. The challenge however is the country barely generates enough to feed other sectors that are considered critical to driving the economy. Nigeria is only able to generate around 4,000 megawatts of power so far which is insufficient for both big and small businesses, much less the 180 million population. Tech clusters across the country are therefore exposed to the vagaries of procuring diesel and petrol to run heavy duty generators that power their enterprise. The consequence is that high cost of running the startups and the pricing of the products. Internet speed is still ridiculously low The failure to address the problems infrastructure companies (InfraCos) face in providing broadband is one area the Osinbajo may want to intervene. Nigeria is expected to hit 30 per cent broadband penetration by the end of 2018, but it appears to have stalled at 22 per cent. Some experts are saying the country may not hit the target come December. A good way to start convincing Silicon Valley is to address broadband penetration and internet speed. 