Businesses’ consumption of cloud technology could reach completion in 2025 with 100 percent enterprise predicted to become cloud-based, according to Huawei annual report. The world of cloud computing has gone mainstream as many more companies vie for one advantage or the other that it offers. Even larger organisations are beginning to realise that having a full grown and fully functioning IT infrastructure that responds to changes and requirements quickly and effectively can be costly. Hence, the decision to acquire more cloud space. Cloud computing refers to the practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the internet to store, manage, an process data or information, rather than a local server or a personal computer. Cloud also takes the responsibility of maintenance and regular updates to hardware and software out of company’s hands. There are different cloud models such as private, public and hybrid. Companies can choose any of the models according to their needs and resources. Data from the International Data Council (IDC) shows that about 85 percent of enterprise currently has hybrid-or multi-cloud strategy. It is the future of enterprise. In Nigeria, different industries are moving their entire processes to cloud. There is the attraction of scalability that it affords. Cloud services give businesses the ability to scale with the click of a button, or via application programming interface (API) calls. It is easier to bring in users and increase cloud usage as demand grows. A good cloud strategy provides flexibility for the workforce. This means they can work from any location and at any time. They are not limited by borders, physical infrastructure and time. It also allows them to access their data from any device anywhere they are. Cloud computing in many ways levels the field for both big organisations and start-ups. In so doing, it enables innovation in any given market. Most cloud-based solutions are easy to integrate. This gives small businesses the opportunity to choose and integrate with various cloud-based providers. It is possible for them to manage their back office demands more efficiently at a reduce cost. Businesses that host on cloud are also better protected against hacking, infection and data theft. This is possible because cloud providers are mandated to comply with a range of stringent, security regulations in order to protect their customers’ data.