Ooni of Ife, Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, and British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Paul Arkwright, have called on politicians and people of Ekiti State to eschew acts of violence before and during Saturday, July 14, 2018 gubernatorial election.
Ogunwusi, who is also the co-chairman of the national council of traditional rulers of Nigeria, gave the admonition while hosting Paul Arkwright in his palace in Ife, Osun State.
He specifically urged the youths to refuse to be used as agents of electoral violence and criminality, saying they too had rights to occupy the public offices such as governorship or presidency in the nearest future.
“What I heard happening in Ekiti State during this electioneering period does not make me happy. Enough of crisis, we do not want any crisis in Yorubaland, where there is violence, progress and tranquility will be deprived, but where there is peace, there is progress,” the O’oni said.
“I warn all youths in Ekiti State to maintain peaceful co-existence before, during and after the election, as brighter future awaits them if they productively discover themselves”.
“Youths must refuse to be used for political violence that leads to waste of lives, because they too can become governor or president of the country in the neatest future,” he said.
The British envoy, who is also the United Kingdom chief observer to Nigeria on the oncoming gubernatorial election in Ekiti, on his part called for free, fair, credible and peaceful election.
Arkwright was in the O’oni’s palace as part of activities preceding the 2019 Presidential by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).
The British high commissioner appealed to all and sundry to remain calm and shun electoral violence, saying crisis cannot add any value to the growth and development of the state. According to Arkwright, British government has no interest in any party or any aspirant, but is determined to ensure that the election is successful without any hitch.
He tasked all security agencies not to be bias, but should ensure they remain independent and maintain peaceful environment across the state for the electorate and the INEC officials.
He expressed further that all other international colleagues would be around to observe the conduct of Ekiti gubernatorial election on Saturday, urging the indigenes to support the observers and INEC officials for the success of the election.