FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange has announced new board Members at its 6th Annual General Meeting which held at the OTC Exchange’s new building complex – Exchange Place, 35 Idowu Taylor Street, Lagos – on Friday, July 27, 2018.
FMDQ OTC announced the appointment of five (5) new Directors to the Board of the Company, effective immediately. As part of the ordinary business of the AGM, the shareholders ratified the appointment of Segun Agbaje (Managing Director/CEO of Guaranty Trust Bank PLC); Uzoma Dozie (Group Managing Director/CEO of Diamond Bank PLC); Charles Kie (outgoing Managing Director of Ecobank Nigeria PLC); Kayode Akinkugbe (Managing Director/CEO of FBNQuest Merchant Bank); and Samuel Ocheho (Head, Global Markets West Africa, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC ), as Non-Executive Directors of FMDQ.
Shareholders also ratified the retirement of four (4) Non-Executive Directors, following the end of their terms in accordance with the Company’s governance guidelines, from the Board – Demola Sogunle (served on the Board from 2017 – 2018), Adesola Adeduntan (served on the Board from 2016 – 2018), Kennedy Uzoka (served on the Board from 2016 – 2018); Bayo Adeyemo (served on the Board from 2014 – 2018).
The changes in the Board have brought the total number of Directors on FMDQ to eleven (11). Shareholders also approved the reappointed of KPMG Professional Services, to serve as the Company’s External Auditors for another year, and authorised the Directors to fix the External Auditors’ remuneration.
Three new members were also appointed to serve on the Company’s Audit Committee. They are Nnamdi Okonkwo (Managing Director/CEO of Fidelity Bank PLC); Abubakar Jimoh (Managing Director/CEO of Coronation Merchant Bank Limited); and Hamda Ambah (Managing Director/CEO of FSDH Merchant Bank Limited).
Speaking at the AGM, Okwu Joseph Nnanna, Chairman of the FMDQ board said he was impressed by the number of fifty (50) debt securities admitted to the OTC Exchange which was up 74% from the previous year, with a total value of 236.87bn. FMDQ recorded a total of 37 commercial papers (CPs), 10 Bonds and three Funds quoted and listed on the OTC Exchange.
“We also attracted foreign currency-denominated securities listings to the tune of $4.98bn, with the Federal Republic of Nigeria making history by listing, for the first time on a Nigerian Exchange, its Eurobonds and the inaugural Diaspora Bond on the OTC Exchange”.
The Chairman also listed some of the major achievements FMDQ in 2017 as the successful registration of FMDQ Clear Limited (FMDQ Clear), a fully-owned subsidiary of FMDQ, by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the approval of the OTC Exchange’s Sukuk Listing Rules by the SEC, and the partnership with S&P Dow Jones Indices by the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the development and publication of co-branded fixed income indices in the Nigerian financial market, whilst thanking all stakeholders for their unrivalled support.
Speaking to the financial performance of FMDQ, the Managing Director/CEO of FMDQ, Bola Onadele Koko, noted that in 2017, FMDQ recorded total revenue of 2.57 billion, a 25.94 percent increase from 2.04 billion in 2016, which was driven by the OTC Exchange’s revenue diversification drive.
He expressed FMDQ’s commitment to becoming a fully diversified and integrated market infrastructure group, commencing with the operationalisation of FMDQ Clear, and the activation of its multi-asset Proprietary Market System, FMDQ Q-ex, to facilitate straight-through-processing in the fixed income markets through the integration of FMDQ’s trading systems with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s settlement system.
He also revealed that the full activation of FMDQ’s flagship corporate responsibility programme, the Next Generation Financial Market Empowerment Programme (“FMDQ Next”) will be achieved in 2018, to foster financial markets education amongst students – primary, secondary and university levels – and fresh graduates in Nigeria.
Meanwhile, Thomson Reuters, the world’s leading source of intelligent information for businesses and professionals, and FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange have announced a strategic collaboration to deepen capacity to help drive liquidity and enhance the visibility of the Nigerian financial market to domestic and international investors.
Making the announcement at a Signing Ceremony on 27 July 2018, the two organisations committed to combine forces to help drive Nigeria’s global competitiveness and visibility to global investors.
“We are pleased to be formalising our partnership with Thomson Reuters as we cooperate towards the development of the Nigerian financial markets. Having sought a like-minded company with similar values and drive to FMDQ, I believe that this partnership will see both parties leveraging on the knowledge, experience, expertise and uniqueness of one another, in a bid to deepen the markets’ capacity and enhance its visibility to domestic and international investors” Onadele Koko said:
Sneha Shah, Managing Director for Africa at Thomson Reuters also disclosed that, “Thomson Reuters has been investing in Nigeria and Africa for over 100 years, and has worked closely with FMDQ and the Central Bank of Nigeria to support the development of the market over the years. FMDQ has been a key driver of many of the financial market innovations coming from Nigeria, and these are going to be important for other developing markets as well.”
“Nigeria is an economic giant of West Africa and the continent and it is vital that global companies who want to reach the fastest growing markets in the world have access to the opportunities here. We are excited about the opportunity this partnership brings to help drive sustainable long-term investment into Nigeria.”
Part of the action plan includes conducting joint financial markets events that promote transparency and liquidity as well as skills training to educate the market.
As part of this partnership, Thomson Reuters and FMDQ will work closely across their continental and global offices – including providing FMDQ access to Thomson Reuters’ Innovation Lab in Cape Town, South Africa – to drive innovation in FX, Fixed Income, Risk Management and the Financial Market. 