US cable group Comcast conceded defeat to rival Walt Disney on Thursday in the $71bn battle to buy the majority of Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox media empire. Comcast said it would instead focus its efforts on clinching a £26bn deal to acquire Sky, the European pay-TV group. It is attempting to fend off rival interest from Fox, which owns a 39 per cent stake in Sky and whose bid is being supported by Disney. “I’d like to congratulate [Disney chief executive] Bob Iger and the team at Disney and commend the Murdoch family and Fox for creating such a desirable and respected company,” said Brian Roberts, Comcast chief executive. The move draws to a close a months-long takeover battle that has gripped the media industry. Comcast and Disney wanted to acquire Fox and Sky to bring in some of the world’s most prized entertainment assets — including the film and television studio behind The Simpsons and X-Men — and fend off digital disrupters such as Netflix and Amazon, which have rapidly upended the media business. Shares in Comcast climbed 2.8 per cent to $38 in pre-market New York trading, while Fox shares dropped 1.5 per cent to $46.78. For most of this year, Disney and Comcast have been fighting to acquire both the Fox assets, which include a 39 per cent stake in Sky, and full control of Sky. Shares in Sky fell 2 per cent to £15.01 in London trading. Last week, Comcast raised its offer to buy Sky to £14.75 per share, up from its initial bid in April of £12.50. The offer came only hours after Fox unveiled its own improved £14-a-share offer, with Disney’s backing, to buy the 61 per cent of Sky it does not already own. The bids showed that the companies’ battle had shifted to Europe after Disney raised the terms of the Fox takeover first agreed in late 2017 by nearly $20bn, taking the price tag to about $71bn not including debt. Last month’s new deal with Fox was designed to fend off a bid from Comcast that valued the assets at $65bn. While Comcast explored increasing its offer for the Fox assets, and considered working in tandem with a private equity or technology company to defeat Disney, it had long been seen to be at a disadvantage, with its higher debt load constraining its ability to surpass Disney’s latest offer. From the start of discussions, the Murdoch family has also preferred to sell the Fox assets to Disney. The Murdochs are planning to spin off their broadcasting empire, including the Fox network and Fox News, as part of the deal with Disney. Some investors also believed the 15 per cent decline in the Comcast share price this year — before it announced it would stand down — made any stock component of a bid from the cable company less attractive than one from Disney, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations. Disney shares have climbed 3 per cent this year, outpacing the broader S&P 500 US stock market benchmark. A decisive moment came late in June when US antitrust officials cleared Disney’s deal with Fox on the condition it sold some of the regional sports networks it would acquire in the transaction. That decision gave Disney the upper hand as it made its case to Fox shareholders that its offer would face less regulatory scrutiny than a deal with Comcast. The US justice department recently decided to appeal against a judge’s ruling that gave the green light to rival telecoms company AT&T in its $80bn takeover of Time Warner, owner of CNN and HBO.