Foreign investors seem to show less concern about the 2019 general elections but are more worried about the plans by the Federal Government to triple the minimum wage, which makes Nigeria as expensive as Vietnam. The Federal Government had set a September date to roll out a new minimum wage for workers, which is expected to be higher than the current N18,000 established by the last administration. The Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) have been kicking against the present Nigeria’s national minimum wage of N18, 000 and have therefore proposed N56,000 as a new minimum wage. “At around $50 per month, there is understandable demand for this. But a tripling would make Nigeria as expensive as Vietnam, but without the nationwide literacy, electricity consumption or investment/GDP ratio to justify parity in wages”, analysts at Renaissance Capital said. The average monthly salary of a worker in Vietnam is about $148 per month; those in high paying jobs bring home around $500 per month. Vietnam’s Cost of Living Range is $700 to $1,400 per month, while its currency, Dong; pegged roughly 1:22,400 with the US dollar. The inflation rate in Vietnam stood at 4.67 percent in June of 2018. Inflation Rate in Vietnam averaged 6.42 percent from 1996 until 2018, reaching an all time high of 28.24 percent in August of 2008 and a record low of -2.60 percent in July of 2000. Taiwo Oyedele, head, tax and regulatory services, PWC, does not believe that Nigeria would be as expensive as Vietnam with the tripling of the minimum wage saying that many countries pay a lot more than 150 dollars monthly minimum wage and are still globally competitive. Oyedele said the proposed increase in minimum wage should not be a major concern for any investor especially those who are thinking of long term investment. Even with a 300 perent increase, minimum wage will be only 54,000 which is 150 dollars. Most private sector businesses already pay more than this. On the positive side, he said increase in minimum wage should lead to more economically empowered population and increase in demand for goods and services. Nigeria’s inflation rate Headline inflation continued to decelerate. It moderated to 11.61 per cent in the month of May, from 13.34 per cent recorded in April, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). “The outlook for inflation in the rest of the year appears largely uncertain owing to the likely surge in domestic liquidity arising mainly from expected fiscal injections and election-related spending”, said Adamu Edward Lamtek, CBN’s deputy director, corporate services. FSDH Research forecasts a further drop in the inflation rate to 10.94 percent in June 2018. “We expect the inflation rate to drop to a single digit in August provided there is no food shortage in the country due to of the current rising crisis in the food producing areas in the country”, Ayodele Akinwunmi, head, research, FSDH Merchant Bank Limited said. Johnson Chukwu, managing director/CEO, Cowry Asset Management limited does not see $180 or N66,000 being demanded by Nigerian labour force as high enough for a family to live with. Responding, Uche Uwaleke, Associate Professor and Head, Banking and Finance department Nasarawa State University Keffi, Nasarawa State, said “I think a major concern of foreign investors, as we witnessed in the period immediately preceding the 2015 elections, is whether or not the 2019 general elections slated for Q1 2019 would be peaceful. Already, increasing political tension is partly blamed for dwindling investors sentiments towards equities in the stock market. On whether the proposed increase in minimum wage is stoking concerns by foreign investors, he said “I do not think any investor would be losing sleep over this given that the minimum wage adjustment has not been provided for in the budget. Besides, the economy is still experiencing weak demand from households and so the threat of prices skyrocketing as a result is slim. Inflation rate is projected at not more than 12.5% in 2018 budget. In any case, one expects a rise in inflation rate, if it does happen, to be accompanied by a tight monetary policy which in most cases benefits foreign investors through higher returns especially in fixed income securities. So, I do not think the prospect of wage increase should make foreign investors stay away from Nigeria. Rather, it is the political tension, heightening insecurity and increasing returns on investments in countries like the USA following interest rate hike, are factors that will shape investors appetite for equities and other asset classes in Nigeria in the near term”.