The National Assembly and the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) have described as “a desecration of the legislative sanctity”, the on-going situation in Benue State in which eight out of the 30 members of the State House of Assembly commenced impeachment process against the Governor, Samuel Ortom.
A statement by Senate President, Bukola Saraki, Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, on Monday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to call the police to order and stop them from being used to achieve political purposes.
The statement was jointly signed by their aides in charge of media, Yusuph Olaniyonu on behalf of Saraki and Turaki Hassan for Dogara respectively.
Describing the development as illegal, they said the impeachment move is not in line with parliamentary procedure.
The two Presiding Officers expressed concern that the 22 other lawmakers who constitute more than two-third majority were prevented from accessing the Assembly Complex by security operatives.
“We have monitored closely the development in Benue State in which the impeached Speaker, Terkimbir Ikyange, led seven other members to serve impeachment notice on the state Governor, Samuel Ortom, while the 22 other members who constitute more than two-third majority have been prevented from having access to the chamber. We believe this is illegality and does not conform to parliamentary procedure on impeachment.
“We also note with surprise the role of the Police in this undemocratic event in which the minority is seeking to impeach a Governor against the position of the majority. We believe it is the sacred institution of the legislature that is being desecrated and rubbished in all these negative developments.”
“The situation in Benue State House of Assembly has grave implication for the nation’s democracy and it represents a throw-back to the period of dictatorship in our country.
“We believe this unlawful and unconstitutional move to impeach Governor Samuel Ortom by a minority should be condemned by all lovers of democracy, at home and abroad. We call on President Muhammadu Buhari to call the police to order and prevent a break-down of law and order. We also call on friends of Nigeria in the international community to lend their voice in condemning the perpetration of illegalities and actions that can subvert our democracy.
“There is already a tense atmosphere in Benue State following the recent killings. Nobody should encourage any action or move which may exacerbate the security situation in the North Central State. As leaders of the Federal legislature, we are ready to work with our colleagues in both chambers of the National Assembly to prevent any attempt to destroy any state legislature or use it to derail democracy,” Saraki and Dogara stated.
Also, the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has condemned the impeachment notice served on the governor.
Rising from an emergency meeting of the PDP National Working Committee (NWC) on Monday, spokesperson of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, also condemned the use of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the Department of State Services (DSS) to harass and intimidate officials of the Benue State Government.
He accused the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole, President Muhammadu Buhari and a serving senator, George Akume of encouraging lawlessness and anarchy in the state.
He said: “The Party States that the actions and opinions expressed by Oshiomole on the decamping of Governor Ortom to the PDP as well as the deployment of Policemen by the Buhari led Federal Government to force the purported issuance of illegal impeachment notice on the Governor are acts intended to precipitate crisis for declaration of state of emergency in Benue.
“It is on record that the erstwhile Speaker had been impeached, suspended and restrained by a court of competent jurisdiction from parading himself as Speaker.
“In spite of this, it is shocking that no fewer than 300 Policemen were alleged to have escorted the impeached Speaker to the State House of Assembly to initiate a disgraceful and manifestly illegal process”.
The opposition party warned against acts designed to truncate the nation’s democracy.
“The Party calls on the Nigerian Public, the civil society organizations and International Community to note the series of plots and deliberate attempts by the Buhari led APC Federal Government to cause mayhem in a State that is struggling to recover from a spate of killings and bloodletting.
“We are aware that these plots were designed to scare away Nigerians, Including State Governors and Legislators, who are desirous of rallying with the PDP to rescue our nation from the misgovemance of the Buhari regime.
“However, Party urges members to remain steadfast as no amount of intimidation, harassment and assault on processes would suppress the freedom of choice eminently guaranteed by the 1999 Constitution (as amended). This misadventure is dead on arrival and again demonstrates the desperation of this failed APC Federal Government.
“PDP therefore urges its members, particularly in Benue State, to rise in defense of their rights and our hard earned democracy,” Ologbondiyan added.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA & OWEDE AGBAJILEKE 