 What is your view about the current escalating insecurity in the country? I have said it severally, and it seems nothing is changing, that there is no country in the world that is not having security issues. Why is Donald Trump thinking of building a wall over Mexico? Look at Turkey. It is all over the world. I would not say the president is not doing enough; I would say that the president and his security team need to up their game so that Nigerians can be safe. The loss of one life would be a minus for any government; but we must understand that even those who have gotten military training would say that there are some wars that are not conventional, that you don’t know your opponent. This insurgency war is a type of war that requires a lot of understanding and strategy. This is the only country where people play politics with security. It must stop. The issues of pulling down your country would not take us anywhere; some call it hate speech, but I think it would not do us any good if we are always thinking of pulling the country down.  What do you have to say about the current defection of some aggrieved members of your party to form an alliance with PDP? It is healthy for democracy. As some people are moving out of APC, some people are also coming into the party. This is our own transfer season in politics in Nigeria; so let them go. Some other people are coming in. I am gearing up for combat, to take the opposition and beat them to their game and take the trophy home at the end of the day.  How do your react to the crisis in your party? I don’t want to be drawn to it; I am in my house and watching unfolding events. Is it not the same [Femi] Gbajabiamila that said what we did was just birthday? I am quietly watching events. At the appropriate time we would react.  Would you still campaign for Ambode as his campaign organisation DG if he approaches you? That is for the party to decide; it is not an individual thing. Even the last time, I was seconded by the party to do the job.  Some of your party leaders see you as a rebel in Lagos APC. Is that true? Do a vox-pox and ask from our party members about this. Do you know how many messages I get on WhatsApp and from people thanking me for standing up against impunity in the party? We said the membership registration in Lagos was non-existent; it was disorganised and they said no. We said we must carry out membership registration and we have been doing that in spite of their refusal, we have been doing that; you can go to www. APCLagos.com, and we have tremendous feedback from people, while thousands have registered so far. When you interrogate the people, they would tell you the reality on the ground. They conducted election in 377 councils which is illegal, we wanted 20 local councils which is what is recognised by law. When you are sitting on illegality, how can they come and do the right thing? Today is Saturday [the day of the interview], but I am here working for the party and the country. You would observe that we are few months to the general elections. I know how much mileage we must achieve. What do they know about elections and campaign? We have a party that is not popular in spite of the fact that we are in power, I have a mandate to convince the people to take us back.  But don’t you think it would be a hard task campaigning for Buhari and asking Nigerians to vote for him? I am a Buharist. Part of the problem is that our government has done so much but, unfortunately, Nigerians have not been exposed to understanding what the government has achieved, what mileage this government has to cover, and I am sure within a short time you would see it. We have communication challenges, we are not communicating as we should, but we are addressing that; we would engage Nigerians more about where this government is and what we met on the ground. We have to engage the media more about what we have done and we are doing that; we are addressing that.  But Buhari has been accused of being a sectional leader. What’s your reaction? Again, that issue is the issue of communication. You see, a coin has two sides, the positive and negative. Because of lack of information, Nigerians don’t know what this government is doing. If you look at what the government is doing, most times you may not see it in the newspaper, but you see NOA engaging Nigerians, telling them what the government is doing. We have identified those shortcomings. In Lagos, the government had the same issue, which is communicating with Nigerians. In Lagos, the civic department got it wrong because they were not using the right tools in passing the message. So when the Visionscape issue came up, the party was not there for the government, the same party that was going to look for votes for the governor. It is the same thing that happened at the national level. So we have identified these issues and we are addressing them.  What is your view about the clamour for restructuring of the country?  As I have told you once, I don’t really understand when people talk about restructuring. There were agitations in the 50s that the Western Nigeria should be part of Lagos. Our forefathers rejected it; Lagos has been there for years and they felt it would not be proper for Lagos to lose its status. Recently there were agitations for creation of Oduduwa state and I asked them, where would you put Lagos? There is a popular saying that Lagos should stand alone and you know Lagos was created in 1861. Then we had the British protectorate and the colony of Lagos and we used to be British citizens, followed by Calabar. In Calabar, we have several tribes. So when you talk about restructuring, I run away. The issue to me should be good governance. When there is good governance, there would not be agitations in the country.