Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, has given more details on the siege to his Abuja residence by men of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other security agencies, warning that Nigeria’s democracy was seriously on the decline. Ekweremadu was, however, full of praise for National Assembly members, the press, civil society organisations, and the Nigerian youth and public for rising in defence of democracy. He spoke to reporters when Senators paid him a solidarity visit in their numbers and across party lines at his Apo Legislative Quarters residence. The PDP lawmaker disclosed that security operatives numbering over 200 besieged his residence on Tuesday to prevent him from presiding over plenary. He said: “We anticipated that a number of our colleagues in All Progressives Congress (APC) would defect and join Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In anticipation of that, the APC leadership had tried to stop them. When that didn’t happen, the first thing they did was invite President of the Senate to come to the Police. They believed that once the President of the Senate goes to the Police, I would be the one to preside and probably give effect to the letter of defection. “In anticipation of that, the Police, EFCC, and other security agencies came together, about 200 of them, to stop me from going to the National Assembly. They said I should come to the EFCC to give explanation over the things I was accused of. I agreed to follow them even though there was no prior invitation, but they were not eager to let me go to answer the invitation. “The plan was to stop me and the President of the Senate from going to the National Assembly. Unfortunately for them, the President of the Senate was already at the Senate to preside over the plenary session. “This is not good for democracy. We must respect the law, respect institutions because that is the only way we can make progress as a nation. This is total embarrassment to our nation. I hope this will not happen again”. Ekweremadu expressed worries for the nation’s democracy, saying: “I am very worried. This is a decline in our democracy. I want to call on the media and Nigerians to stand up for Nigeria and ensure we save our democracy. This is a dangerous development. The whole world expects Nigeria to lead in democracy in Africa. We need to make progress and show the world that Nigerians are indeed leaders in every aspect of life. “This is my official quarters. Invading my official quarters is like an invasion of an aspect of the National Assembly. When you invade the National Assembly, you are invading the temple of democracy. That is exactly what has happened today. This is a major assault on democracy. This is not the type of attitude we should be encouraging. The principal thing in a democracy is dialogue, discussion, and networking, not through threats. We need to have a rethink”. Ekweremadu said whoever advised the executive on the siege to his residence and that of the President of Senate was an enemy of both the current administration and the nation’s democracy. The Senator urged Nigerians to stand firm in defence of democracy.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 