The Federal Government has committed the sum of N1.023 trillion in bailouts in the form of low interest loans and grants to Nigeria’s power sector within the last three years yet the country is unable to move the needle on stable power supply.  In 2015, the Federal Government through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) provided the sum of N213 billion as Power Sector Market Stabilisation Fund at a concessionary single digit interest rate to distribution company’s (DisCos) and power generating company’s (GenCos).  Two years later, the government created a N701 billion payment assurance guarantee through the CBN for the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trader (NBET) to pay for gas supplied to power generation companies (GenCos).
Early this year, the government also said it has taken advantage of the new Meter Asset Provider (MAP) regulation by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), to provide a grant of N37 billion to private sector operators who would provide prepaid meters to interested DisCo customers.
Last month, the government again committed to invest N72 billion for the procurement of equipment and installation to help get the 2,000 MW it said the DisCos routinely reject to consumers who need them.
However, these bailouts have had limited impact on the sector. Between 2015 and 2018 Babatunde Fashola minister of Power, Works and Housing said generation has moved from 4,000MW to 7,000MW but Nigeria’s generation capacity has always been about 7,000MW which could not be unlocked due to absence of gas feedstock.
The actual new generation is the 954 MW comprising 455 MW (Azura); 215 megawatts (Kaduna), 240 MW (Afam III); 40 MW (Kashimbilla) expected to the added to the grid later this year. About 1,150MW are also projected for 2019 including 700 MW (Zungeru) and 480 MW (Okpai II).
Transmission capacity has increased from 5,000 MW in 2015 to 7,124 MW in December 2017 but the grid is still unstable and unable to wheel all the power generated. In 2017 alone the national grid collapsed fifteen times.
Distribution capacity has moved from approximately 2,690 MW in 2015 to between 3,000MW and 4,000MW in real time, but it is inconsistent and DisCos are accused of rejecting power due to poor collections and dilapidated distribution assets.
The operators granted these bailouts have treated them with disdain or abused the purpose for which they were created, stakeholders tell BusinessDay.
“Regrettably because of the source of funds, conditions such as the opening of Letters of Credit were attached to secure performance of the purpose for which the money was meant; some DisCos have not taken the money and instead have gone to court thereby frustrating full disbursement, and recently the NERC has revealed unauthorized use of the money by Ibadan DISCO and taken some regulatory actions,” said Fashola in a press briefing on July 9.
Meanwhile the power sector is bogged down by debts. The DisCos who are meant to pay NBET from which other market operators would be settled have been keeping more for themselves from what they collect hence their debt have risen to N859 billion according to the Minister.
DisCos claim they are being owed about N70bn by Federal Government Agencies but after reconciliation, the minister said the figures were exaggerated and it came to only N27bn which he said would be set off from the huge debt the DisCos owe NBET.
Through the provision of the N701bilion guarantee for GenCos, about 80 percent of their market invoices were being settled until the government began paying Azura Power from the same fund. Fearing, calamity, the GenCos went to court to stop the payment. NBET owes GenCos N325billion.
“The danger with all these bailouts is that Nigerians will still pay for these money as it is tax payer’s money. Many of these bailouts are given without the consent or knowledge of market operators,” said Joy Ogaji, executive secretary of Association of Power Generation Companies at the BusinessDay Future of Energy Conference in Lagos on Thursday. The possibility of Government losing money from these bailout packages is a real and present danger as Nigeria’s electricity market is illiquid with shortfalls of about N1.3trillion. DisCos remit only about 15 percent of their market invoice according to NERC.