Like every other important personality in the country who loves God and the things of God, Donald Duke, a former governor of Cross River State and a presidential aspirant for 2019 on a yet-to-be-determined platform, last Thursday joined the worshippers at the Deeper Life Bible Church headquarters in Gbagada, Lagos. As a principle, Pastor William Folorunsho Kumuyi, general superintendent of the church, does not abandon his pulpit for anybody. Although he believes in constituted authorities and seriously works for safe and Godly society through his pulpit engagements, he so much believes that politics and religion must play their roles, apart. He does not campaign on pulpit and does not encourage such in any way. But he can allow those in authority a moment to greet the people whenever they come calling, and particularly, when he is led by the spirit of God to so do. So then, Duke, a fine gentleman, went to the stage. Below are his own words:  Salutation I would like to express my gratitude to the Almighty for affording me this opportunity to be part of this Special Revival Service. And I would also like to thank our pastoral father and General Superintendent, Dr. William Folorunsho Kumuyi for this very rare honour of being in your midst on this podium in this magnificent auditorium. And may I also on behalf of my wife and I and my delegation to this event congratulate the church and you, Sir, on the commissioning of this befitting ultramodern international headquarters of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry. Although this event has been tagged ‘Night of divine increase,’ it is also evident that the sustained growth of the church is not just a night of divine increase but infinite divine increase through the grace of the Almighty God. Kindly oblige me this opportunity to thank you Dr. Kumuyi, for your contribution to our nation and global development over the years. Thank you, Sir, for being consistent and committed to your ministerial calling. May the Lord Almighty continue to uphold you and sustain the church.  State of the Nation  Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone is in doubt about the challenges facing our country today. If anything, we probably agree that we are at our lowest ebb, as a nation. And if not checked, could lead us into a situation where anger, anxiety and utmost distrust not at the leadership but at our fellow citizens. This is an evening of optimum grace and not one suited for recounting the recurrence of dismal things that have happened. And what has led us to this point? We probably have the answers or at least, faint idea of it. I would rather want to use this opportunity given to me to speak to urge us all to move beyond complaining and watching things go wrong, stop resigning ourselves to criticisms and forlorn hope but rather stand up to those who wish to desecrate our future with fallen policies, strategies and crass ignorance.  Appeal  It is time to stand up and come together to oppose all forms of inequalities and discrimination because our nation Nigeria, as dire as the situation may be, is a land of grace and abundance, a biblical land of milk and honey. We cannot in such abundance live in penury like the children of Israel while in Egypt. The solution relies in our collective resolve to take back our destiny in our hands; reclaim our future and reassess the rules of engagement in all strata of our national life. Growing up, this story was my favourite subject. I marvelled at the trials and lessons and novelty of our past and prospect and credence they lent to our future. But today, I wonder what history our children will relish. I wonder if theirs would not have been that of hate, division and distrust. For my generation seated in this hall, it is a burden that is hanging on us and posterity would be unkind to us if we do not do something about it. I use the children standing the risk of being lost and it will be uncharitable for us not striving to guarantee them a better future. But even more importantly, ensuring that they embrace that future with renewed vigour and zest; one which does not personify hope but actively involve in the process of shaping their future. My brothers and sisters, we must defend our country, its vital interest, its image in the comity of nations and its message to the world. It is our obligation to defend our nation from all those who seek to desecrate it. Our civilisation is at stake, our way of living of being free or promoting our values, our common enterprise, our hopes, our stake. And we cannot live it to chance any more – we must act and act now. We must come together to rebuild the link between our leadership and the led; between the state and its citizens and between Nigeria and the rest of the world. The essence of the privilege of my speaking to you today is a clarion call to each and everyone of us, particularly our young people here to recognise our strength in our diversity and to awaken to democratic activism, actualise the powers in building your right of democratic suffrage with the conscious realisation that skills, industry, productivity and competitiveness are determinant factors for national greatness. Without doubt, industry and creativity, Nigeria will remain an overgrown underfed and over indulgence geographical description and not a nation. There are certain challenges we must overcome to achieve greatness. First is the challenge of social and economic dichotomies. Nigeria painfully suffers the failure of common citizenship. This failure is embedded in the fact that we primarily define ourselves by our tribes rather than by our nation. We do not see Nigeria as our home but as a geographical entity where our primordial home, our tribe is located. Until we commonly go beyond tribal sentiment, we would always have the challenge of leadership. It should never matter where leadership comes from. What should matter is how capable leadership is.  The need for strong institutions  The next challenge we must tackle is that of building institutions of democracy and development. One of the greatest problems of nation building today is the absence of institutions. Whether nations are able to manage their political dispute peacefully without lapsing into conflict or sustain economic growth without creating huge inequalities, critically depend on the quality of their relevant national institutions. We should not just set the rules, we must place the right people who have the expertise and moral competence to understand and implement the objectives of our institutions and ensure that these institutions inspire public confidence by being fair, by being transparent and by being steadfast.   Leadership: The key  Lastly, and most fundamental is the challenge of leadership. Leadership is an important key factor in national development. Unless we have leaders with ability, integrity, commitment, vision. And above all, the fear of God, our nation will continue to falter and remain within the confines of mediocrity and sideline amongst its peers. Our nation is in great need of leaders who have a vision to leave it better than they met it, leaders who would lead by deed and not by words; leaders who believe that everyone matters; leaders who by their fruits we shall uphold them.  The future is bright  Our experience in the past has been very disappointing. But we have every reason to believe that the future will be better, if we collectively agree to address these challenges that becloud our nation. Let me point out that the enemies of Nigeria are not many challenges destroying our land but the people and institutional mechanisms that support and enable these challenges to persist. My dear friends, if you refuse to speak up, refuse to vote and participate or refuse to seek office you are eminently qualified because you feel there is nothing you can do to make a difference. Or worst still, believe you do not count, then you are part of the problem. Indeed, a major part of it. You were born as a change agent and must resolve to play your part with humility, diligence, confidence and with the injunction of the Almighty to love our neighbour as our ourselves. As I close, I implore you to get involve with the polity. Any vocation that seeks to regulate the affairs of men for the better or to be a noble one. But nobility can only come from noble person. You here gathered form the ranks of the noblest of Nigerians. You cannot and must not allow filth occupy and take control of our national estate. Every institution is a lengthen shadow of one man and it is evident here this evening. I want us to commend our General Superintendent again. And by extension, our political institution would always reflect the values of those whom through our actions or omissions are entrusted with his leadership. For us this more, as our future as a nation may seem, our God is a prayer answering Father, for His grace knows no bound. For He shall lead us not destruction but upon calling His name deliver us from evil. Our revered General Superintendent, congregation, my friends, ladies and gentlemen, the honour is mine to be in your midst this evening. Thank you.