Cross River is set to become Nigeria’s largest cocoa producing state as it flags off a yearly programme to distribute free cocoa hybrid seedlings to farmers of the crop, thereby boosting the state’s production. Also, the state which is currently Nigeria’s second largest cocoa producing state is set to establish a 10 hectares seed gardening of the crop to ensure the continuous planting of new trees in the state. This was made known to journalists during the flag-off ceremony of the distribution of cocoa seedlings to farmers in Ikom local government area of the state. “We are very serious about the cultivation of cocoa in Cross River because of its enormous potential and this is why we would continue to partner with the Cocoa Association of Nigeria (CAN),” Anthony Eneji, Cross River state commissioner for agriculture said. “The state government is ready to assist any individual interested in establishing a cocoa farm with easy land acquisition, key inputs and technical support to make Cross River the hub of Nigeria’s cocoa production. “We would start with the 10 hectares of seed gardening for free distribution of seedlings to farmers and this is in line with the government efforts to drive export through the agricultural export,” Eneji added. He noted that the state has purchase inputs worth about N30 million for farmers. With this we would boost the production of cocoa in the state as well as the nation’s production. The commissioner said that the state is currently producing 70,000 and 75,000 metric tons and our target is to increase our production to 500,000 metric tons per annum. “Cross River land potential is about 600,000 hectares for cocoa so with a metric ton per hectare we can produce 600,000 metric tons. Until we have planted on all our 600,000 hectares we would not stop giving farmers seedlings,” he further said. He said that the state is participating in the Federal Government the Accelerated Agric Development Scheme to provide loans with single digit interest rate to maize and cocoa farmers in the state. Speaking also to journalists during the flag-off, Sayina Riman, national president, Cocoa Association of Nigeria and vice president, World Cocoa Producers Organisation said that the private sector in the state has talking it upon itself to boost Cross River state cocoa production. He appreciate the state government for developing a cocoa processing factory in the state, which according to him will improve value addition in the country, create exponential gains by way of earnings, employment and other spin-offs.  “The seedlings being distributed are hybrid that can give farmers a ton per hectare. We are also sensitising farmers on rehabilitation of old trees and establishment of new plantations,” Riman said.  “We are also distributing the free seedlings it to attract young people into the sector,” he added.