Nigeria has developed a four-year national action plan on yam export to generate $10 billion in revenue annually for economic growth and development.  The yam export would allow Africa’s most populous nation generate more foreign exchange into the economy and make exponential gains by way of employment generation and other spin-offs to drive growth.  Nigeria is the largest yam producer globally, accounting for 67 per cent of global output with an annual production of 45 million metric tons (MT) in 2016, data from the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) shows.  However, the country is yet to tap the full potential in the crop production. Experts however believe that the country’s action plan, if well executed, will change the current narrative in the production of the crop.  Elizabeth Nwankwo, CEO Oklan Best Ltd, whose company is a major yam exporter in Nigeria, told BusinessDay that yam exports would create ready markets for farmers, raising their incomes, as well as investment and job creating capacities across the value chain.  In spite of the gains in the yam export initiative, Nigeria has failed to increase its yam production within the last five years, even as the population continues to increase, BusinessDay found.  Furthermore, the country’s production has been constrained by old farming techniques and continuous farmers/herders crisis in the north-central region, which accounts for over 80 per cent of Nigeria’s total output, experts noted.  “Nigeria needs to increase its yield per hectare in yam production to fully benefit from the export initiative and also develop high ratio propagation technologies through aeroponics, hydroponics and vine cutting to address the problems of quality and multiplication in seed yam production,” Martin Enahoro, deputy director, Peniel Gerar International said.  “We need to address the crisis between farmers and herders in the region, as this would impact negatively on production,” Enahoro said.  According to experts, Nigeria can only realise its export potential and diversify its revenue through agriculture when agro commodity that are bulky can be easily transported at cheaper rates to reduce cost of production.  “Infrastructure impacts export competitiveness. If we do not do anything about our infrastructural gaps, we would not get anywhere economically,”  Madu Obiora, former chairman, export group, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) said.  “We need to activate various means of transportation to facilitate trade and competitiveness,” Obiora said.  “The roads are bad. It takes an average of two and three days to transport yam produce from Benue (located in the middle belt, of Nigeria) to Lagos (located in southwest). I lost over 100 tubers on my last trip because the trailer got spoilt on the road and had to sleep on the road,” Godwin Apak, a yam farmer in Benue state told BusinessDay.  Similarly, the rail infrastructure has remained poor, despite efforts of past and present administrations to improve the infrastructures across the country, experts said.  “The rail infrastructures in Nigeria are poor. The logistics to facilitate export are lacking in the country and this is what has driven export growth in most economies of the world,” said AfricaFarmer Mogaji, chief executive officer, X-Ray Consulting Limited.  “We need to revive our rail infrastructures for easy movement of bulky agricultural commodities from farms to the nearest seaports or airports facilities,” Mogaji said.    Cargo facilities for export are in a poor state despite billions of naira invested to revive cargo facilities.  Last year, the Federal Government flagged off the yam export initiative to Europe, the US and the Americas, to compete with Ghana, the largest exporter of yam globally, to attract more foreign exchange into the economy. 