Atiku Abubakar, a former vice president and presidential aspirant on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), has decried the level of divisiveness and insecurity in Nigeria, as well as the worst economic decline in the history of the country under the present administration. He said that it has become imperative to unite and come up with a leadership that would turn things around in the country. Atiku made the observation in Umuahia, Abia State capital, when he visited the state to interface with stakeholders of the party and to declare his intention to run for presidency under the PDP in 2019 reaffirmed his belief in restructuring as partway to unity in Nigeria. The former Vice President, when he paid a courtesy call on Governor Okezie Ikpeazu at Government House described Abia as a state with great human and natural potentials and commended Ikpeazu for his efforts at placing Abia on the world map though his developmental strides. According to him, “Abia is one place that has unprecedented potential both human and industrial capacity”. “Let me therefore commend your leadership in this state. It is not surprising because you have the qualities both intellectually and otherwise,” he added. Governor Ikpeazu in response said for Nigerians to make the right decisions, “they must look at where we are coming from and where we are going bearing in mind what the future holds.” He advocated for deep thinking and sober reflection if the right impact must be made in the country and called on Nigerians not to go to the polls in 2019 carelessly. He said the pedigree of the former Vice President would come to the fore as the party decides her flag bearer and assured him of Abia’s identification and prayers for him while depending solely on God’s will. Ikpeazu noted that the unity of Nigeria has become imperative for even and speedy development, while expressing hope that Nigeria would rise. “I am hopeful that this Nigeria will rise again, I am hopeful that this country will grow,” he said. Gbenga Daniel, former governor of Ogun State, earlier in his speech described the situation of the country as a rain and prayed the sun shines again on the nation. He said Nigerians are disappointed with the present administration and called on Nigerians to look intelligently in order not to make further mistakes in the future. Other dignitaries who accompanied Atiku on the visit include Okwesilieze Nwodo, former governor of old Enugu State and Abdul Ningi, among other stakeholders.