The International Culture & Arts Festival (ICAF) has announced its 2018 annual art show scheduled to hold on the 28th of July. ICAF said that the workshop will hold from 25th to 27th July 2018, at the Radisson Blu Anchorage, Victoria Island, and is primarily aimed at growing new art tradition and art exchange programme, as well as promoting other forms of art in Nigeria Solomon Ogbonna, managing director Amuna Museum, who addressed journalists at a media event, announced that sequel to ICAF Berlin 2017, ICAF annual art show for 2018 spans four countries. “It is our mission to support art in Africa and as such the 2018 show spans four countries, including Nigeria, Kenya, South Africa and Germany with the theme ‘Global Peace and Harmony,” he said. He further said that this year’s ICAF sets to attract an audience of 2000 art enthusiasts at the art shows in Africa and Europe. Also to generate 100,000 views online of Art work on the show from around the world. “The show promises an exciting art experience and exposure for artists. It also invites other creative personalities and entrepreneurs in Music, Fashion, Entertainment, Media, and Food industries. Making the ICAF 2018 an ideal platform for African Artists to be seen and followed,” he said. According is to support art in Africa. Professor Dilomprizulike, a German-based artist, opined that Art is huge business with global art sales topped 45 billion USD 2015. “ICAF presents to everyone, experts or not, the latest innovative thinking, challenging what successful Art entrepreneurs know and shaping how we understand the business of Art around us. In addition to that, discover how new digital techniques have revolutionised, how lives can be transformed through Art in a sustainable Economy,”  Dilomprizulike said. ICAF Lagos art show involves three main sections, one of which is the Art exhibition; a display of rich art collections to visitors of all ages, presenting the opportunity to see works by some of the world’s best artist in Africa, categories including paintings, photography, sculpture and prints, among others. Featuring also, is the Art conference and the Art workshop which will be focusing on capacity building on a competitive African Art set skills.  Alongside, exposure on business of art which includes practical step by step guidelines for a successful art practice. According to Bruno Eke, director Simpli International, ICAF, the event will showcase Art Catalogue. “This publication is set to generate thousands of views of Art works online and distribute contents from the ICAN Art Show 2018 worldwide. This is a platform to educate and inspire a global audience for Art and Art business in Africa,” he said.