INTRODUCTION The human body engages in various physical, mental and spiritual activities virtually on daily basis. These expose it to heat, cold, dust, smoke and chemicals including pesticides and petro-chemicals that constitute toxins to the human body . There are however, some organs that assist to reduce their cumulative effect, if only they are operating maximally. Some of them act to neutralize these harmful chemicals. Others assist to either prevent them from entering the body or eliminate them, thereby reducing the incidents of tissue damage. Such important organs include small and large intestines, also called the gastrointestinal barriers. The lymphatic system, the kidney, bladder, lungs and sweat glands are also significant with regards to detoxification. Experts on nutrition explain that the small and large intestines act as the first line of defence. They assist to prevent the toxins from entering the other organs. But once they are too weak to function and the toxins enter the blood, “wahala dey O!” Forgive my interjection in pidgin English. What happens next at this critical point, according to Good Health Magazine, is that “undigested food particles, bacteria and some other substances that normally reside in the intestine move into the bloodstream”. The aim is to trigger the immune system to react but it may lead to inflammation. If this continues organs such as the liver, kidneys, the skin and lungs become overwhelmed. Of all these, it is the liver that carries the burden of filtering the toxins and transforming them into harmless chemicals and sending them out of the body through the kidneys as urine or as part of stool. Others are eliminated through the lymphatic system, kidneys and lungs. SYMPTOMS How do we know or what signs and symptoms should we look out for that indicate that our bodies are carrying toxins? Good question. According to much-respected Prof. Oladapo Ashiru, a professor of anatomy and a Consultant reproductive endocrinologist the answer comes with accelerated ageing, persistent headache, backaches, running nose and fatigue. Other symptoms include itching and body rashes, joint pains, itchy nose, nervousness, wheezing, irritated eyes, nausea and insomnia or inability to sleep. Furthermore, ailments such as sore throat, dizziness, indigestion, frequent cold, sinus congestion, stiff neck, bad breathe, body odour, circulatory deficits, constipation, anorexia, fever and high blood fat are traceable to the presence of toxins in the victim’s body. THIS IS WHERE THE FOOD WE EAT COMES IN: Detoxification is not a one-off action. Rather, it is holistic as the causative factors are interrelated. PREVENTIVE MEASURES include the THOROUGH WASHING OF FRUITS that may have been loaded with pesticides, smoke and dust. Serious disorders such as Parkinson’s illness, breast cancer and even Alzheimer’s disease are likely to show up years later. Malnutrition, anaemia, bacterial infection including typhoid fever could be traced to fruits and vegetables that are not properly washed. Protect your body and brains by the simple preventive action. Also, Poly- vinyl Chloride (PVC) released from plastic containers, shower curtains and old mattress covers into our heavily polluted environment and eventually get into our food and water could cause some of the aforementioned diseases. STAY AWAY FROM LEAD. According to Dr. Ellen Silgerbeld, PHD, an expert on toxicology at John Hopkinhs School of Public Health, many women of the age of 40 and above carry lead in their bones. This is toxic and deadly. Lead is common where gold is mined as it constitutes an impurity. Lead in bones weakens them making them susceptible to easy breakage. Worse still, when it enters the bloodstream  it leads to High Blood Pressure(HBP), nervous disorder and of course, kidney problems. Foods rich in calcium, Vitamin D, magnesium and zinc are effective in releasing lead from the body. Foods rich in calcium are milk, yoghurt, unripe plantain, soyabeans, sardine, cornflakes and dark green vegetables. Those that provide vitamin D, apart from exposure to sunlight include: Fatty fish, like tuna, mackerel, and salmon.  Others are beef  and liver, cheeseand egg yolks. Foods fortified with vitamin D are some dairy products, orange juice, soy milk and cereals. Food items that boast of high amount of magnesium are tomatoes, potatoes, carrots and green leafy vegetables such as spinach.  Fruits such as  avocado amd  banana  as well as  nuts andseeds are all recommended. Other plants such as legumes (black beans, chickpeas and kidney beans), green beans and seafood (salmon, mackerel, tuna) have magnesium. The best foods that are high in zinc include meat, shellfish, legumes, seeds, nuts, dairy products (milk, cheese), eggs and whole grains such as wheat. Still on food for detoxification, avoid mackerel that may contain mercury that could lead to heart disease. Of great significance is to CHEW YOUR FOOD PROPERLY.  Food not properly chewed could be expelled in the intestines that could cause obstruction, fermentation and putrefaction. These lead to pot belly, erectile dysfunction or weak manhood, bad breath and infertility. Preparation of food is all-important as protein and carbohydrate-rich food may lose their power to fight toxins. Also do not over boil eggs as they become denatured and reduce their nutritional value. Other preventive measures include the need to stay away from chemicals in plastic bottles and food containers. They can raise the risk of breast cancer. Also, flame-retardant chemicals common old foam and electronics could interfere with the function of the thyroid gland and the immune system generally. Besides, STAY AWAY FROM SMOKE! A study at the University of Arizona, us warns that even smoke from a stick of cigarette is enough to impair blood flow in the heart. And according to study in Norway, women who smoke up to four sticks of cigarettes a day triple their risk of heart attack. Even those who expose themselves to smoke and suffer from second hand smoke are also in danger of increasing the body’s toxin level. As at ten years back it was revealed that as many as 50,000 people die annually from across the world by exposing themselves to smoke. It has also been discovered that dust containing lead and lead could stick to your shoes! So, make a habit to keep your shoes outside your living room and wash your feet properly. Though it is good to go for detoxification in certified medical spas, prevention would always be cheaper and safer than cure.  Ayo Oyo Baje 