Good News! Fashion Focus Africa Applications are now open! This year, Lagos Fashion Week uses its annual Fashion Focus programme to cement its work and dedication to providing incubator support for emerging talent with the launch of Fashion Focus Africa. Established in 2011, Fashion Focus (formerly known as Young Designer of The Year) is dedicated to the growth and promotion of emerging talent in the fashion industry through mentoring and awarding a grant via the Fashion Focus Fund. In partnership with FETS Wallet and Avivere, Fashion Focus presents unique opportunities for emerging talents to harness their skills through business development workshops, creative workshops, and mentorships with the aim to provide young designers with the tools they need to facilitate innovation, accelerate growth and achieve commercial success. The Fashion Focus programme, which was previously open to only Nigerian talent is now taking applications from all over Africa.  Speaking on the new direction of Fashion Focus, Londe Thompson, Programme Director, Fashion Focus Africa & Fashion Focus City Tours stated: “Opening up opportunities that the Fashion Focus programme offers to emerging talent across the continent is in line with our commitment to developing the African Fashion Industry. The vision is to provide a level playing field for African fashion talents to thrive within Africa and the rest of the world.” Alumni of the Fashion Focus programme include Ejiro Amos Tafiri, Gozel Green, Iamisigo, Kenneth Ize, Maxivive, Meena, Orange Culture, and Sisiano. In March 2018, 2017/18 Fashion Focus Finalist, Emmy Kasibit was the recipient of the Fashion Focus Fund. Emmy received a cash grant of N5,000,000 (Five Million Naira) to support his business. Applications for the 2018/19 session is now OPEN! Why should you Apply?; ● Eligibility to apply for the #LFWNG Fashion Focus Fund ● Business and Creative Skills Workshop ● Business and Creative Mentoring ● Opportunity to showcase at LFW in 2019 ● Endless access to market opportunities Application Criteria; ● Designers must have a minimum of 2 years working experience ● Designers will be required to send moodboards and sketches of their work in addition to physical samples ● Designers must have existing points of sale ● Designers must be capable of developing and presenting a full collection How do I Apply? View and fill out application forms here: http://lagosfashionweek.ng/ The application deadline is on the 14th of September,all applications received will be reviewed.Ten shortlisted applicants will be invited to present their work to a selection panel at Lagos Fashion Week in October 2018. The 5 Finalists for the Fashion Focus Africa 2018/19 session will be announced and the programme will commence from December-January 2019. For further enquiries or questions kindly contact info@lagosfashionanddesignweek.com and to keep up to date with Fashion Focus City Tours, please visit these social media pages,for instagram;@LagosFashionWeekOfficial and for twitter; @StyleHouseFiles.. Heineken Lagos Fashion Week is proudly sponsored by Style House Files, Heineken, FETS Wallet, Fayrouz and Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC).
For more information on #LagosFashionWeek, www.lagosfashionweek.ng and for press enquiries,kindly contact press@lagosfashionanddesignweek.com 