France comfortably dispatched Croatia in the final of the 2018 FIFA World Cup played on Sunday, July 15, 2018 at the Luzhniki Stadium with Seventy Eight thousand and eleven fans in attendance.
France took the lead when Croatia forward Mario Mandzukic, who scored the extra-time winner over England in the semi-final, headed home an Antoine Griezmann free-kick in the 18th minute for the first own goal in a World Cup final.
Croatia’s Ivan Perisic, who had also scored in the semi-final, leveled up with a powerful shot in the 28 minutes after France had failed to clear a Luka Modric free-kick.
Perisic conceded a penalty for handball that was given following a VAR decision and Griezmann converted the spot-kick in the 38th to put the French back in front.
VAR seemed to disappear in the knockouts in Russia 2018 but it returned with a vengeance in the final as France played Croatia.
At 1-1 in the first half, a cross from France struck the arm of Ivan Perisic, entirely accidentally given he had no time to react when the ball flicked off the head of a France player.
But shockingly, after much deliberation, the penalty was given by referee Nestor Pitana.
Paul Pogba’s curled a powerful shot in that left Croatia goalkeeper Danijel Subasic rooted to the spot and puts France 3-1 up in the 60th minutes of the second half.
Lloris lazily trying to touch the ball around but plays it to Mandzukic foot and right back past him into his net to make it 4-2 .
France added another goal in the 65th minutes when Kylian Mbappe, the nineteen year old who is making is World Cup debut made it 4-1 for the Blues he pulls a shot left and past Subasic, who is left no chance.
France were the first to secure their place in the World Cup showpiece, after Didier Deschamps’ men put Belgium to the sword by a goal to nil courtesy of a header from Samuel Umtiti on Tuesday night. Croatia, meanwhile, got the better of England in their own final-4 outing, with Mario Mandzukic’s half volley in extra-time having proved the difference between the sides on Wednesday.  Anthony Nlebem, reporting from Luzhniki Stadium /Moscow