A brief interaction with Audu Ogbeh, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, during his visit to Wageningen University and Research Centre (WUR) in the Netherlands, was very insightful and helped to understand the commitment of the government in finding a lasting solution to the recurrent farmers-herders crisis in Nigeria. The Nigerian postgraduate students at WUR fully agree with the minister that nomadic herding is no longer feasible and Nigeria needs to adopt a self-sustaining ranching model, based on public-private partnerships and free of regular government expenses. The newly developed National Livestock Transformation Plan can benefit immensely from the success achieved in the Dutch dairy sector. The globally envied Dutch dairy sector started its development when individual farmers came together over a century ago to form cooperatives. Through the cooperatives, the farmers have succeeded in creating one of the world’s largest dairy processing companies –the Friesland Campina. They also have the Rabobank (a top-ranked bank with 723,445 Million US$ assets), and the cattle breeding company/cooperative ‘CRV’. FrieslandCampina is 100% owned by member dairy farmers (about 19,000dairy farmers in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium), with each member serving as an independent entrepreneur. This form of self-sustaining business model is what the Nigerian postgraduate students at WUR propose as a sustainable ranching model. A model that can operate solely on the corporative strength of the dairy farmers and other relevant stakeholders, with support from the government. In general, we are confident that the new FG policy can learn a lot from 140 years of vast experience in dairy farming coordination in the Netherlands. Universities in the Netherlands such as WUR can contribute in the aspect of knowledge transfer by providing opportunities for herders and other stakeholders in the Nigerian livestock sector to visit for short courses and onsite visits of livestock establishments such as dairy farms, milk processing factories, etc. There are already short courses in these areas for developing countries, sponsored by the Dutch Government. Another idea that may boost knowledge and technology transfer to Nigeria for the benefit of the 94 proposed cattle ranches is what we termed “Shonga farm model”. In 2004, the Kwara state government under the leadership of Bukola Saraki came up with initiatives to make land available to 13 highly experienced white Zimbabwean farmers who were evicted from Zimbabwe during Robert Mugabe’s reign due to political reasons. With the acceptance of the local community leaders, the people of Kwara state, and a public private partnership business model, the Zimbabwean farmers settled down and established commercial farms. Now Shonga farm has one of the largest farm lands in Nigeria – 17,000 hectares – with record breaking farm yields. Forty percent of the farm is owned by the Zimbabwean farmers. Regarding dairy development in Nigeria, the farmers flew in 170 Jersey cows in 2005 and now they have close to 1000 cows. The farm is still thriving strong after 13 years of establishment, producing more than 3,000 litres of milk per day and having factories for dairy processing. Interestingly, the farmers are currently crossbreeding the imported Jersey breed with the local White-Fulani breed to produce cows that are strong enough to cope with the environment and produce large quantities of milk. Their improved cows produce at least 15 litres of milk per cow, which is one of the highest in the country. The model brought an impressive transformation in crop and dairy production, created employment opportunities, and most importantly, knowledge transfer to the local communities in Kwara where the  foreign farmers were received. This model can be replicated in the Nigerian dairy sector in partnership with European dairy farmers, especially the Dutch farmers. Why these group of farmers? Milk in Europe has become so cheap (25 Euro cents per litre at farm gate, which is below the cost of production) that an average farmer can’t cope, even with EU subsidy. Stiff regulations, automation (robots) and the massive milk production volume (oversupply) have left many dairy farmers in EU struggling to survive competition. Now farmers sell off livestock and facilities – more than 40,000 dairy farmers have sold off in the last 10 years. Many farmers are still on the brink of bankruptcy and looking for opportunities abroad. For instance, in the Netherlands, the number of dairy farmers has reduced by about 90% since 1960; there used to be 180,000 farmers in the 60s, 50,000 farmers in the 80s and now less than 18,000 farmers are operative in the Netherlands. Farmers are increasingly moving abroad for farming and they take their technology and skills with them. This serves as an opportunity to replicate the shonga farm model, using these highly skilled and passionate dairy farmers from the Netherlands and EU for scale enlargement of the Nigerian dairy sector. Using this model, frugal and innovative solutions in feed, water, breed (genetics) etc are  possible. Lastly, to ensure dairy development, government policy must encourage local milk production and discourage dumping of milk powder in Nigeria by EU countries. Milk powder definitely has unfair competition with local production, hence, local milk production will never thrive unless there is a favourable policy against the tough competition from the European market. Policies on market protection, price regulation, easy access to finance, subsidy, extension services, animal breeding and disease control will help a great deal. Policies that support local production such as seen in Nigerian rice sector, can greatly help the dairy sector to thrive as a self-sustaining business. 