The publicity secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Akwa Ibom, Ini Ememobong  has displayed a rare sense of communal love by providing the people with drinking water, a meeting hall as well as donating exercise books and uniform to schools in Ibiono Ibom Local Government Area of the state. Particularly significant is the water project for the people of Use Abat who are proud the beneficiaries of the project initiated and completed by Ememobong in which women and youths used to trek several kilometres each day in search of drinking water. In addition, new set of school uniforms were also donated to students of community high school in Edem Urua while a modern administrative block in Use Ndon was completed and presented to a foremost socio political organisation in the area, Ibiono Ibom Welfare and Development Union (IWADU). Inaugurating the projects which also included the presentation of an artificial limb to a 15-year-old amputee, the wife of the governor, Martha Udom lauded the donor for the love he has shown to his community  and described the publicity secretary of the PDP as man of vision whose contributions to his community and the society could not be ignored. The wife of the governor used the opportunity warn youths against being allowed to be used as tools of violence in the forthcoming general elections saying elections should not be a do or die affair. “I want to plead that the election should be free and fair. Election will come and go but Akwa Ibom will remain as one, let us have the mind to help each other,’’ she said. Speaking earlier, Ememobong said he was moved by the love the state governor, Udom Emmanuel has shown to the people of his local government area  to replicate same for his community adding that the governor has completed a number projects in the area. According to him, the commissioning of a long abandoned road in the area done within the first 100 days of the governor being in office was remarkable. He thanked the governor “for the show of unrestrained fatherly love” while also lauding the immediate past governor of the state, Godswill Akpabio who gave him the first appointment in the state government. Ememobong also had kind words for IWADU for being at the forefront for the emancipation of the people of the area. The chairman of the party , Paul Ekpo and the speaker of the state house of Assembly, Onofiok Lke who were both present at the inauguration of the projects commended Emembong for the sense of commitment to the development of his community and they urged others to emulate him. According to  Ekpo, the donor is a straightforward person  who loves the truth and well as the people.  He  lauded the governor’s wife for coming around to inaugurate the projects including the modern administrative of IWADU which is located in Use Ndon in the local government area. The inauguration of the projects turned out to be a carnival of sort as the rich cultural heritage of the people of Ibiono Ibom was put on display which included masquerades and traditional dances to the admiration of the numerous guests who thronged the venue of the event. 