Oando declined 9.4 percent at the end of Monday trading on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), to the lowest since October, after a report that the London Court of International Arbitration ordered two companies owned by Oando CEO Wale Tinubu and his deputy Mofe Boyo to pay $680m to Ansbury Investment Inc.  Oando’s share price opened at N6.40, however at the close of market yesterday the share price had dropped to N5.80.  Analysts are expecting the decline to continue further on the back of the effect of negative press on investors’ confidence.  “I expect that the company’s share price will continue to decline. Any negative news will have a significant issue on its shares as investors shy away,” Ayodeji Ebo, MD, Afrinvest securities limited told  BusinessDay in telephone interview.  On Sunday, 15th of July 2018, Oando, one of the major downstream companies in Nigeria was issued an award against its Chief Executive Officer, Wale Tinubu and deputy Mofe Boyo to pay a total debt of $680 million an equivalent of N244.8 billion to Ansbury Investment Inc, which is owned by Gabriele Volpi.  The award is equivalent of 91 percent of the company’s total outstanding equity as at March 2018. In its ruling on July 6, 2018, LCIA held that Ocean and Oil Development Partners, OODP, British Virgin Islands, which owns 55.96 percent of Oando Plc through a holding company named Ocean and Oil Development Partners Nigeria Ltd, is indebted to Ansbury Investment Inc. to the tune of $600 million (N216 billion).  An international lawyer and counsel to Ansbury Investment, Andrea Moja, confirmed the LCIA award in a release on Sunday. According to Moja, the Arbitration Court also held that Whitmore Asset Management Limited, whose ultimate beneficial owners are Wale Tinubu and Mofe Boyo, are indebted to Ansbury Investment to the tune of another $80 million (N28.8 billion). This brings the total debt owed by the Oando managers to Ansbury Investment to $680 million.  The documents indicate that a final award in which the court will pronounce on accrued interests on the debts owed and legal expenses incurred by Ansbury will follow in the next few days. The LCIA award has been communicated to the parties concerned since July 9, 2018.  The technical suspension placed on Oando shares in October was lifted in April by the Nigerian Security and Exchange Commission (SEC). The energy company came under scrutiny after a SEC review found alleged corporate governance failures and financial mismanagement, which Oando denied.