The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has finally dismissed the widely reported case of underage voting during February 10 Kano State Local Government in the state as “fake” even as it debunked insinuations of the use of its Voter Register and voters cards to facilitate underage voting. This information was obtained by BusinessDay on Wednesday from the INEC website, which published what the commission, claimed is the comprehensive report of the Abubakar Nahuche- led committee that investigated the allegation of underage voters during the election conducted by the Kano State Independent Electoral Commission (KANSIEC). INEC in the investigation disclosed that the purported  pictorial representations of underage voters participating in the local government election in Kano state were clearly doctored,  stressing that some of the images were obtained  from distribution of relief materials to  Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp in some parts of Borno state three years ago. “The Committee’s analysis of the pictures and video clips of underage voters  on  social  media,  as  well  as  review  of  interactions  with  several stakeholders  that  participated  in  the  elections,  show  clearly  that  most  of the clips were in circulation long before the said election,” INEC said. INEC cited the case of a picture published by one of the National Dailies on March 2015 to depict under age voting in Lau Local Government Area of Taraba State, pointing out that the picture was re-circulated as showing underage voting in Kano in 2018. INEC also said that some pictures taken during the voter registration exercise in Nasarawa state in 2011, were re-circulated and presumed to have happened during the Kano local council polls. The commission noted that it become incumbent on it to address the allegations conscious of the foundational role of a credible Register of Voters in all elections and mindful of the outrage caused by the alleged voting by underage persons using the national register in the election. It also dispelled rumours of any collaboration between the commission and some political interest groups to undermine the process. The commission also claimed that it conducted the investigation in collaboration with other stakeholders including political parties, civil society organizations and security agencies. “Majority  of  stakeholders  that  interacted  with  the  Committee  said they  observed  no  cases  of  underage  voting.  No  election  day video  coverage  was  presented  to  the  Committee  to  prove  the incidence of underage accreditation and voting using the INEC Voters’ Register. “All the video clips received from Africa Independent Television (AIT), Channels TV, TV Continental (TVC), Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Abubakar Rimi Television (ARTV) showed coverage of the polling   unit   where   the   Governor   voted   with no   evidence   of underage accreditation and voting.” INEC said further in the report that although it provided the register of voters to the KANSIEC, it was generally not used for accreditation on election day. INEC had presented a preliminary report on the vexed issue, where it absolved itself of any connivance to rig the poll adding that under Section 15 of the Electoral Act, the commission is mandated to make the Voters’ Register available to SIECs when required for the conduct of their Elections.  The commission noted however that it has no legal supervisory authority over SIECs.