Illiquidity in the power sector is seen as the biggest threat to the 7 Critical Gas Development Projects (7CGDP) recently unveiled as an integral leg of the gas development strategy designed by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).  The strategy is designed to leverage the full potential of Nigeria’s gas reserves to help meet the target of generating at least 15 gigawatts (GW) of electricity by 2020.  “The domestic gas market is quite a commercial market but as at today, there is a problem of liquidity in the power sector. To deliver 15GW of electricity to power the entire country, it will mean that all the liquidity issues will have to be resolved and once the power sector becomes stable, there is enough liquidity in the system to pay for the gas that is being delivered,” said Austin Avuru, chief executive, Seplat Petroleum Development Company, one of the joint venture (JV) partners involved in the project, which currently controls about 30 per cent of domestic gas market.
The power sector is seen as the main catalyst for demand of natural gas in Nigeria.  “It is crucial that the gas fiscal regime includes sufficient incentives to enhance the commercial attractiveness to ensure the realisation of the 7 CGDPs as this will support supply and sustainability for the producers and offtakers,” said Victor Sodje, managing director, Newcross Exploration and Production, one of the JV partners for the project – a company that aims to deliver about 500 MMscf/d to 600 MMscf/d in the long term into the domestic market.  The 7 CGDP are all targeted at ensuring domestic energy security and securing enough volume of gas to deliver into the domestic market.  The overall target is to deliver 5Bscf/d of gas into the domestic market. Experts say that volume will meet all Nigeria’s needs of about 15GW of electricity, all the heavy industries, cement, fertilizer feedstock and others. What is currently being delivered into the domestic market is about 1.2Bscf/d, which will rise to 3.5Bscf/d by 2020 and ultimately to 5Bscf/d.  “The sustained availability of gas is expected to drive growth in domestic gas consumption mainly for the delivery of more gas to enable the government’s power generation capacity target of about 15GW, stimulating the industrial sector of the economy, stimulation of gas-based industries such as Fertilizer, Petrochemicals, and Methanol with Nigeria as the African regional hub for these industries,” said Sodje. In terms of cost recovery for the 7 CGDP, Sodje said that “it is still too early to tell, however, there is a will to ensure financial viability and NNPC has engaged 2 professional firms to advise on financial advisory and project development and execution.  As with any qualifying project, cost recovery should not be a problem if the applicable gas fiscal regime allows it in addition to ensuring sufficient returns on investments in a CGDP”.  Dada Thomas, president of Nigerian Gas Association (NGA) and the chief executive of Frontier Oil Limited, a key player in the domestic gas market believes that the 7 CGDP can be actualised if proven to be technically and economically viable.  “The domestic gas market will be strengthened and expanded which leads to improved balance of demand and supply provided the gas transportation and distribution infrastructure will be expanded as part of this collective mega project, the network code on which the industry has been waiting for long time is implemented and adoption of willing buyer-willing seller, free-market system is allowed to flourish,” Thomas added. On sustainability of gas supply, Sodje does not see it as an issue “since Nigeria is a proven gas resource center with Africa’s largest proved gas reserves at about 187 Tcf and ability to support gas driven exploration and production programmes. Estimated potential demand is also very high – an increase of 3.7 Bscf/d or 385 percent by 2020.” NNPC and the JV operators intend to develop the 7 gas fields with attendant processing facilities to deliver the required gas into the domestic market.  Most of the fields straddle different operators. According to Avuru, “the first thing is to establish unit operators’ agreement for each of them that straddle across different operators. One of such agreement was signed on the day of the launch of the programme.” The 7CGDP, according to the NNPC include development of the 4.3 trillion cubic feet (TCF) Assa North/Ohaji South field; development of the 6.4 TCF Unitized Gas fields (Samabri-Biseni, Akri-Oguta, Ubie-Oshi and Afuo-Ogbainbri); and the development of 7.0 TCF NPDC’s OML 26, 30 and 42. Others are development of 2.2 TCF Shell Petroleum Development Company (SPDC) JV Gas Supply to Brass Fertilizer Company; cluster development of 5.0 TCF Oil Mining Lease OML 13 to support the expansion of Seven Energy Uquo Gas Plant; and the cluster development of 10 TCF Okpokunou/Tuomo West (OML 35& 62).