Growth and Development Asset Management Limited (GDL) has signed the Initial Public Offering (IPO) of N1 billion units of N10 each at par in the GDL Money Market Fund. The fund is an open-ended fund constituted under a Trust Deed and will invest in money market instruments such as treasury bills, bank placement and commercial papers. The fund seeks to maximise return on invested capital in a coordinated and risk averse manner consistent with the preservation of capital and the maintenance of liquidity by investing exclusively in investment grade money market instruments introduced and duly approved by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Speaking to journalists after the signing ceremony, Kola Ayeye, managing director/CEO, GDL said the money market fund is approved by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and it is beneficial for retail investors, individuals and High net worth individual (HNIs) as it affords them the opportunity to diversify. “So you have the opportunity of funds which are under professional management, diversification and the professionals managing the fund have an eye on where the interest rates are going, so they make informed choices. Hopefully, the returns should be slightly better than if the owners of the fund are managing it themselves”, Ayeye said. Furthermore, he said “the approved outlets are treasury bills eligible bank placement and triple in commercial papers. The money is very safe. Investors in this fund can go and sleep. This is not a risk fund. This fund does not take risk. The benefit it gives investors is diversification. This fund helps you to achieve safety and diversification and a strong yield”. He explained that the other segments of the market is going south and if the riskier segment of the market for example, equities are going south and people are leaving equities, they can’t leave their money under their mattresses. “I will think that when the equities market is down, the money market becomes more compelling. I think that makes the timing most appropriate”. By pooling of funds together, the fund presents the advantage of enhanced bargaining powers in the financial market such as minimised transaction costs. Unit holdings in the fund may be used as collateral for obtaining credit facilities from various financial institutions. As an open-ended fund, it will be opened to investors for subscription through the fund manager after the full subscription of the initial 100,000,000 units issued. As a result, the fund manager will issue additional units when required, with the consent of the Trustees, subject to the registration and approval of the units to be offered by the SEC.  HOPE MOSES-ASHIKE