To ensure that that her clients and potential clients in the ICT and telecommunications industry manage their riskeffectively and efficiently towards greater productivity and value creation, Wapic Insurance Plc has extended its Risks Management series to stakeholders within this sector. Insurance companies believe that if the operators in ICT and telecommunications become more aware of the risk facing their business and investments, they will be more proactive and strategic in the process of achieving better productivity. According to the Insurance Company, this will not only impact the sector, but also contribute significantly to the economy and overall development of country. Adeyinka Adekoya, CEO/managing director of Wapic Insurance Plc made the remarks at the Seminar Series organized by the insurance firm with the theme “Mitigating Risk in the Telecoms & ICT Industry: Challenges & Solutions.” She said the Insurance seminar series, which started in 2017 is one of many of its kind organized by the Company to add value to the businesses of its clients across different sectors of the economy Adekoya noted that risk is constant in life, and this is the reason risk management is an important aspect in the lifecycle of any business. “In a progressively globalizing world, risk management is in fact a measure that calls for constant remodeling, and fine tuning to fit evolutions in business and the world in general.” She further noted that globalization has allowed for the proliferation of digital solutions, Telecoms and ICT. “The technological and industrial advancement in itself poses a risk to our collective future and to secure a progressive future, it is important that all technological investments of today remain sustainable and scalable for the future.” “This is the reason we share risk management perspectives, and tinker on the alternative methods of managing risk exposures of Telecoms & ICT companies, especially within a volatile economic environment like Nigeria.” “Insurance is one very important risk management measure. However, there are many other valid measures that together with insurance will provide the right fortification for Telecoms and ICT companies in Nigeria.” At Wapic, it is our desire to always lead in all that is worthy, and to provide maximum value to all our clients, which is why we have organized this seminar, Adekoya noted. Olusola Teniola, president, Association of Telecoms Companies who commended Wapic for the initiative said mitigating risks is important in the telecommunication industry. Teniola stated that proper understanding of the risks available in the space will provide operators and investors in the industry some comfort and courage to delve into new areas and explore opportunities, which ordinarily would have been difficult with the knowledge because of fear of loss. Yombo Bammeke, managing director/CEO, United African Insurance Brokers in his presentation on Enterprise Risk Management said recognising where the risks are and applying strategies to mitigate them was critical for business survival. He however noted that in risk management, what is important is not looking for ‘who did it’, but trying to understand ‘what happened’,‘how did it happen’, and‘what can be done’ to ensure it does not happen again. Wapic’s in-house technology expert in his presentation advised Telecoms and ICT companies to transfer as much risk as they can afford, but still make plans for redundancy. Wapic Insurance Plc. is a leading West African multi-line insurance company providing solutions covering life, general and special risks. Established in 1958 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange since 1978, Wapic’s mission is to transform into a diversified financial services institution, delivering value in a sustainable manner to her customers and stakeholders while playing a lead role in the transformation of the industry.  Modestus Anaesoronye 