Nigeria’s image is improving in the local and international circles following the expiration of the last set of non-digital passports. Under the non-digital passport regime, many Nigerians, especially groups, maintain multiple international travel passports with different identities which they switch for various dubious purposes, especially upon being denied visa into some countries. The advancement in technology and digital verification systems, including the SIM card registration, Bank Verification Number (BVN) and establishment of digital passports which carry biometric content including photographs and finger prints make it almost impossible for people to maintain more than one identity. A lot of these identity lapses created credibility problems for Nigerian government, businesses and individuals. A stakeholder in the telecoms industry affirmed that the advancement in technology and the age of internet of things (IoT) have given government access to information on citizens. “Systems of data collection such as the e-passport, new biometric driving license, bank verification number (BVN), permanent voter’s card amongst others are excellent ideas as having access to information allows the government to lay foundations for policies and make commitments to improve conditions of the country,” the stakeholder added. A source at Ikoyi passport office who craved anonymity told BusinessDay that the digital passport regime has improved the image of both the passport holder and the country as a whole, adding that the integrity of the passport holder and the image of the country are enhanced because the passport is fraud proof. “You cannot do multiple acquisitions or alter any information in the digital passport. If you try to alter any information on the passport, there is a microchip embedded in the passport, just like the debit card, which could expose the culprit. With this, you can access all information about the person and no one can remove the microchip,” the source explained. The source however suggested there could be more synergy with the relevant stakeholders to ensure crimes are eliminated using various measures. “There could be synergy at some point. The Nigerian Immigration Service is collaborating with National Identity Management Commission, (NIMC) so that the information in our data base can be accessed and the information in NIMC can also be accessed together,” the source added. Abiola Akiyode Afolabi, Chairperson, Transition Monitoring Group also hinted that the digital passport regime has reduced insurgence of crimes in Nigeria but more can be done in curbing fraud through the use of SIM card registration and the BVN. “When you go to the airport now, one of the things they do is to scan your passport. Through this process, you know if it is original or not, but I think that criminal acts could be reduced drastically if there are greater synergies,” Afolabi said. She explained that in the United States of America when a crime is committed, the information of the culprit could be accessed and these information could help in carrying out investigation and tracking down the criminal. She affirmed that Nigeria can achieve this feat if there are right synergies in place. Although the global online fraud report by Iovation in 2012 ranked Nigeria as the highest for cybercrime activities, recent data from Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) on its fraud landscape report shows the decline of e-fraud success in the country. Femi Fadairo, Head, Industry Security, NIBSS, said  that Nigerians are becoming more comfortable transacting on electronic channels which seems to be more much more safer than it ever was before. “There has been a 43 percent increase in the volume of electronic transactions and 11.5 percent increase in the value of transactions done online between 2014 and 2015. Even with the bad economy, Nigeria still saw a volume of 166,598,740 e-transactions compare to the volume of 43,857,767, 842 in 2014,” he said. Fadairo said that regardless of the fact that electronic transactions has increased which should naturally  translate to higher risk, Nigeria has seen less e-fraud cases over the years. “In 2014, 1,461 fraud cases were reported with an attempted fraud value of N7.8 billion but there were eventually able to steal about N6.2 billion. That is a success rate of over 80 percent. This means that every ten times someone tries to defraud, the person will be successful eight times. “However, in 2015, we had a total of 10,743 fraud cases reported with a value of about N4.3 billion and the actual loss was about N2.2 billion. From these statistics, we can see that the success rate has decreased. Also the value of attempted fraud and the actual losses also reduced. Although we had more fraud attempts reported, many of those frauds did not sail to as compare to 2014,” he said.