More than 80 percent of chief executive officers of technology companies say they are worried of not finding the right talents to hire. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC)’s 21st CEO Survey titled “The Talent Challenge: Rebalancing skills for the digital age” showed that although more executives are optimistic about the prospects for growth, they face daunting threats in terms of talent recruitment. “People strategy weighs heavily on CEO’s minds,” wrote Carol Stubbings, Global Leader, People and Organisation for PwC. “If businesses are to attract the workers they need – concern about the availability of skills has never been higher – to deliver the best possible performance and productivity from their organisation, they need to have trust on their side. The digital era has ushered in new ways of doing things. There is more relationship to customer relations than there was in the past. Satisfaction has also taking on a new meaning in view of various technological innovations and the customer environment is moving constantly to many virtual places than most businesses have been to. Tech trends such as artificial intelligence (AI) and automation have redefined efficiency, productivity and profitability. Companies are forced to restrategise and find the balance between business opportunities and the inevitable impact on jobs and trust. Interestingly, these sweeping transformations is not leading to job losses instead most CEOs organisations in different geographical locations are recognising the need to increase the size of the workforce. The Survey showed that 72 percent of CEOs in China and 61 percent in North America expect to increase their headcount. Only 31 percent of CEOs in Africa expect to do the same and 28 percent of CEOs believe headcount will drop. The biggest challenge for the CEOs remains hiring people with the right skills. PwC predicts that it will become even more challenging as business models evolve. 91 percent of CEOs agree that they need soft skills to sit alongside digital skills. 