Technology adoption will help insurance and other financial service providers understand the behaviour and needs of clients in the efforts to deepen penetration through financial inclusion John Tani Obaro, MD, SystemSpecs who made the observation at the recently concluded National Insurance Conference (NIC) held in Abuja. Obaro speaking on the theme “Leveraging technology for financial inclusion” said technology has demonstrated a strong potential to help improve access to and quality of financial services for the unserved and underserved population. Obaro stated that Nigeria lags behind in inclusion targets across every measure and is not on track to meet the targets by 2020, as provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria. Target is that by 2020, the number of adults in Nigeria with access to payment services will increase from 21.6 percent to 70 percent; Savings will increase from 24.0 percent to 60 percent; credit will increase from 2 percent to 40 percent; Insurance from 1 percent to 40 percent and Pensions from 5 percent to 40 percent. “Exciting technology innovation is happening in emerging markets and very much in Nigeria through new products and services launched by start-ups and through partnerships with banks and corporates.” Obaro also noted that if the financial institutions including insurance companies fail to exploit the advantages of technology, Nigeria might not achieve its NFIS targets in the nearest future. He identified greater technology collaboration between stakeholders, disruption of value chain, focus on smart data, open platform and APIS, and the use of alternative information as ways financial institutions can use technology to ensure that all households irrespective of income level have access to financial services. “By leveraging technology, many insurance companies will change the way they are presented. It will change the point of transaction.” Obaro also noted that appropriate financial services can help improve household welfare and spur small enterprise activity, stating that economies with deeper financial intermediation tend to grow faster and reduce income inequality. “Digital Technologies can play a key role in addressing the issue of poverty eradication within a balanced mix of Responsible Regulation, Relevant Skills & Accountable Institutions.”