President Muhammadu Buhari came to power in 2015 vowing to fight corruption which had been undermining the country’s economy and entire society, but sadly, that has not happened as a recent report from the Auditor General’s office shows.  The Auditor-General’s office whose fundamental function is to protect public interest by performing a detailed and objective examination of public accounts and also scrutinise Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) expenses showed there was huge corruption and mismanagement of funds during the first full year in office (2016) of 75 year old president Buhari who is also seeking re-election in Africa’s biggest oil country.  “Deficiencies were noted in the process for consolidating the balances of Ministries,   departments and agencies into one economic entity…. the Consolidation boundary for the Federal Governments Financial Statements is not adequately defined, and the justification for the exclusion of several significant balances was uncertain,” Anthony Ayine the auditor-general of the Federation said.  The Auditor General gave a Qualified Opinion (which is a statement issued after an audit is completed by a professional auditor) suggesting that the information provided is limited in scope and the Nigeria’s account has not maintained General Acceptable Accounting Principles (GAAP).  At the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Abuja Contracts worth N1.2 billion were awarded to various contractors by the Directorate to supply skill acquisition materials to various State offices.  Despite contractors being fully paid, the audit exercise showed the items purportedly supplied were not physically sighted or received by the staff of the Directorate while Certificates of job completion were either issued by Senators or Ministry of Special Duties instead of the NDE.  In 2011 and 2012 at the FCT Education Resource Centre (ERC), contracts were awarded to 7 different contractors at different locations for the total sum of N141 million with completion period of 4 to 12 weeks.  During audit verification visit to the project sites, it was discovered that the 7 contractors had abandoned the projects, some at zero and others at not more than 45 percent level of completion as the amount paid to the contractors could not be ascertained because relevant documents were not made available for scrutiny while the completion period was grossly violated.  According to the report, Ecological Fund which was set up for the amelioration of general ecological problems in any part of Nigeria was credited with N26 billion as the required 2 per cent deduction from the Federation Account in the year 2016.  Further Examination from FAAC 2016 records showed another N48 billion was received into the Ecological Fund which is the required 3 percent deduction from the Federation Account for the Development of Natural Resources.
The Auditor General observed that the N28 billion representing about 58 percent was paid out of the Fund as loan to carry out various activities that are not related to development of natural resources.  “We recommend that henceforth, the Federal Government should deploy these Special funds only for the stated objectives of the Funds,” the Auditor General said in the report.  The Auditor General also observes that there were various withdrawals from Funds by the Federal Government for “borrowing” which the purposes are unclear while the repayment plans are also not stated.  “The 2017 Budget did not include any appropriations for the repayment of these borrowings,” the Auditor General noted.  “We therefore further recommend that arrangements are clarified immediately, for the repayment of any funds not disbursed for the prescribed purposes of these Funds,” the Auditor General said.  Also, Stabilization Fund which was created to provide financial support to States whenever they suffer an absolute decline in revenues due to factors outside their control received a total of N17 billion from the federation account in 2016.  The Auditor General however observed that during the examination of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) statements that the sum of N14 billion and N2 billion was released to the Federal Ministry of Defence and Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) respectively.  Auditor General has however requested the Accountant-General to provide authority for the Funds Invested, tenor of the investment, rate of interest payable, certificate for the funds invested and forward same for audit verification.  “The Accountant General must explain the utilization of N14 billion for the purpose of funding a new army division contrary to the purpose for which the Fund was created, and also provide evidence of N17 billion refund back to the Stabilization Fund,” Auditor General said.  The Auditor General also noted during the examination of transcripts prepared by the Office of the Accountant General that it was observed from the examination of NNPC report to Technical Sub- Committee of Federation Account Allocation Committee meeting held in December 2016 that a cumulative total of N4.07 trillion remained unremitted to the Federation Account by NNPC as at 31st December 2016.  The total revenue unremitted as at 1st January 2016 from amounts payable into the Federation Account by NNPC was N3.87 trillion . The sum of N1.198 trillion was due in revenue to the Federation Account out of the total generated in 2016, however, NNPC paid the sum of N1.00 trillion resulting in an amount withheld of N197.59 billion.  This brought the total amount withheld by NNPC from the Federation Account as at 31 December 2016 to N4.07 trillion.  “It is of particular concern that the unremitted balance is increasing year on year. The Group Managing Director of NNPC has been requested to:(i) Explain why the sum of N4,076,548,336,749.75 had remained unremitted to the Federation Account by NNPC, contrary to constitutional provisions, remit all amounts due to the Federation account,improve on the record of remittances of proceeds to the Federation Account.,” the Auditor General said.  The office of the Auditor General also noted that FAAC records showed that the sum of N443 billion was made for subsidy payments which is at variance with the N563 billion in the records of PPPRA as subsidy payments in 2016.
This implies there is a difference of N120 billions paid for subsidy through the federation account but which was never paid for. “The Accountant General of the Federation should explain the extra budgetary payment on subsidies during the year 2016,” Auditor General said.  At the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing (Housing Sector) led by Babatunde Fashola, the Auditor General observed that Cash Advances of over N26 million was granted to staffs in 2016 who have not retired as at the time of audit inspection in July 2017 while some officers were granted new advances without retiring the previous ones. Also, 7 payment vouchers with amounts totalling N95 million were raised to pay mobilization fees to some contractors, without relevant supporting documents such as the Unconditional Performance Guarantee or Security Bond from a reputable bank or Insurance company, contrary to Financial Regulations 603(i) and 2933 which states that ‟all vouchers shall contain full particulars of each service” and that ‟the provision of unconditional performance guarantee or security bond shall be a precondition for payment of mobilization fee.” Another 2 payment vouchers of about N9.8 million were raised and paid for verification visits of on-going Housing projects in South East and South West Geo-political Zones.  These payments were questionable and irregular as Duty Tour Allowances (DTA) for the 20 officers were found to have been paid into one person’s account as there was no evidence in form of report that the project verifications were carried out in any of the zones mentioned. BusinessDay observation of the Auditor General’s report showed that nothing was ever reported as stolen or missing from 2011 to 2016 which is impossible as Chapter 25 and 26 of the financial Regulations enjoins ALL accounting officers to render reports of any loss of cash, stores Plants, Vehicles and equipment to the office of the accountant General of the federal Civil Service Commission.