Nigeria’s oil output rose by 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) in July helped by the return of Shell’s Bonny Light crude grade which had been under force majeure on account of outages to Nembe Creek Trunkline (NTCL) and was subsequently closed for repairs.  Force majeure is a legal clause that allows companies to cancel or delay deliveries due to unforeseen circumstances.  Nigeria’s oil exports were expected to drop to their 2018 low in July—to just 1.43 million bpd following the closure, compared to 1.796 million bpd in June.  However with production bouncing back, the country’s performance helped the organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) reach a 2018 peak oil production of 32.64 million barrels per day in July, up from 70,000 bpd according to a Reuters survey.  OPEC and allies agreed last month to boost supply as U.S. President Donald Trump urged producers to offset losses caused by the sanctions the United States placed on Iran in order to cushion impact on oil prices, which this year hit $80 a barrel for the first time since 2014.  On June 22-23, OPEC, Russia and other non-members agreed to return to 100 percent compliance with oil output cuts that began in January 2017, after months of underproduction in Venezuela and elsewhere pushed adherence above 160 percent.   The outage of the Bonny light crude led to the accumulation of lots of unsold crude. The Nembe Creek Trunkline transports 150,000 bpd of Bonny Light to the terminal that Shell operates and is one of two main pipelines that carry the Bonny Light oil grade to the export terminal.  After almost two months under force majeure, Shell confirmed that that it “lifted the force majeure on Bonny Light exports on July 16 following the repair and reopening of the Nembe Creek Trunkline by the operator, Aiteo Eastern E&P Company Limited.”  Bonny Light, with production of between 200,000 bpd and 250,000 bpd, is one of the main export grades for Nigeria and is very popular among refiners globally. The two-month force majeure on exports has benefited the pricing of other key Nigerian grades such as Forcados and Qua Iboe.  In June, there were disruptions to Bonny Light, Forcados, and Qua Iboe flows, but loading schedules showed that Nigeria’s August crude oil exports would likely rise from July. Exports of the Forcados grade were planned to increase to around 259,000 bpd next month, up from 195,000 bpd originally planned for July, according to loading programs seen by traders who spoke to Reuters  Bonny light crude grade traded $76.23 per barrel yesterday rising by 2.14 percent over the previous day’s figures.  Buoyed by higher oil prices, producers are hitting their platforms to ramp up production as oil looks to be profitable again in the medium term. 