Following the aftermath of Hurricane Harvey in some states in the United States last year, which claimed lives, displaced whole families and destroyed properties, a three-time NFL defensive player of the year, J.J Watt, began a campaign on a US-based crowdfunding platform to raise funds for the victims. His initial target was $200,000, but he and hundreds of his would-be critics, underestimated the power of goodwill and people’s capacity to help others. The fund closed at an astonishing $37,097,298. Giving and donations is an everyday lifestyle for many people. In developed countries, online platforms such as the one Watt leveraged has been built to enable people express their humanity in a more structured, convenient and safer manner. Nigeria has recorded many disasters – in the past and present. The most recent was the Lagos State fuel tanker incident that razed over 50 vehicles and claimed 12 lives. Although the state government have said it will prosecute the driver, the fate of the victims in terms of relief remains unknown. A one-minute silence was observed for the victims of the tanker fire at the official unveiling of Quickraiz, an online fintech platform designed to create a marketplace where people with genuine causes will meet with the benevolence and support of individuals, groups and organisations. Ativo Limited, a subsidiary of fintech company Electronic Payment Plus (Epayplus), is the brain behind Quickraiz. Bayo Adeokun, managing director and CEO of Epayplus, said the need to take the various solutions developed by the parent company to the market led to the creation of Ativo. Like Watt, individuals can leverage Quickraiz to provide some financial relief for victims of any disaster, whether natural or man-made. “Given the recent statistics that indicate that mobile penetration in Nigeria is at 84 per cent while internet penetration rose from 54 percent in 2016 to 65 per cent in 2017, this clearly supports our firm believe that formalising the culture of benevolence in Nigeria on Quickraiz will create a marketplace where unattainable funds in the traditional giving pattern will be accessible and not limited to only those you know but to a pool of users,” Adeokun said. The platform which is the first of its kind in Nigeria, supports funding campaigns for causes such as medical funding, weddings, charity, education, political campaigns, memorials, alumni association contributions, sport funding, group gifting, travels and many more. To begin a campaign, individuals will need to register on the website. Some personal information is expected for first timers on the platform. This is to help Ativo provide adequate security for both the recipients and the donors. A campaign can reach as much as 5 million people across several channels. Importantly, campaigns get donation opportunities from a special list of philanthropists compiled by Ativo.