The United Kingdom National Crime Agency has announced that it will be funding a forensic lab for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) with £500,000. This was made known during a two-day capacity building workshop organised by the U.K. National Crime Agency for all the zonal heads of EFCC in Abuja on Tuesday. Paddy Kerr, International Manager of the British antigraft agency described EFCC’s Digital Forensic Laboratory as a “Centre of Excellence” for every law enforcement agency in Nigeria, said the lab is to enable the agency ethically and lawfully extract evidence from digital devices. “We want to look at the skill gaps that the EFCC currently possess ,if it does possess any, look at the training that we need to fill those gaps, that in itself will provide a catalyst with which to provide the momentum of anti-corruption activities,” he said. Ben Ikani, Director of Forensics, EFCC, commended the UK government’s support for the Commission’s fight against corruption in Nigeria, describing the workshop as “significant”. Recall  in July 2015 The European Union-funded project known as ‘Support to Anti-corruption in Nigeria,’ was  assisting the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) forensic experts to train all the beneficiary anti-corruption agencies (ACAs) on basic forensic use. Forensic experts from the United Kingdom and United States of America provided basic training to judges and prosecutors on the use of forensic evidence. For more than one year, the experts have been mentoring the staff of the forensic lab of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on forensic fingerprints identification and computer forensics. The on-going forensic mentoring programme forms a strategic component of a 25 Million Euro programme funded by the European Union aimed at upgrading the operational capacity of the EFCC. This programme, which is being implemented by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), has been providing support to the EFCC in several areas, including the establishment of a world-class IT system, training and mentoring, as well as several research and advocacy initiatives. The support provided by UNODC to the forensic lab will ensure that “EFCC agents prove cases which would otherwise be difficult to prove, increase the number of convictions by EFCC prosecutors and protect innocent people who may have been wrongly accused”. The mentors also support the laboratory in the development of standards, protocols, procedures, and workflows consistent with the international standards and best practices for forensic laboratories. The activity is to associate improvements of the previous support which was given to the EFCC’s forensic unit through training and, the purchase of equipment for its forensic laboratory through the previous EU funded project NGAS08 on Support to the EFCC.