Senate Majority Leader, Ahmed Lawan said despite the defection of 15 members of the All Progressives Congress, APC, to the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP and other opposition parties, the ruling party still retained majority seats in the upper legislative chamber. Lawan accompanied by key Senators including, Aliyu Wammako and Kabiru Gaya disclosed this Tuesday night while speaking with journalists after a meeting with the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole at the party’s Secretariat, Abuja. He told journalists that, “there was defection to PDP and other parties by some of our party members in the Senate and what we have come here to do is to brief the National leadership of party on what happened. The Senate Leader stressed that, “even though we have lost some of our members to PDP and other parties but APC still retains position of number one party with more seats than any other. “Presently we are 53 Senators, PDP has 49, ADC has 3, APGA has 2 and we have two vacancies, we lost our colleagues in Katsina and Bauchi. “Those were APC seats, very safe seats and in August probably August 11 by elections will be held and by the grace of God APC will claim its seats and APC majority will increase and improve. “We are also going to work very hard with our leaders here to reach out to our colleagues who have left us to try to explain to them and give them the comfort that APC is the party to work because we have a President who has been focussed, who have done so much with so little resources in Nigeria, who is busy providing infrastructure in this country. “I believe that every well meaning Nigerian will do everything possible to support this kind of President. At the end of the day, we are hoping that our colleagues who have gone will come back to this Party to continue in the nation building process”, Lawan stated. He also argued that the defection does not implied that the APC has failed in its reconciliatory efforts and dismissed insinuations that his position as Majority Leader was threatened. “If you look at our standing rules the party with the majority seats provides the majority leader and I told you that we are 53 and PDP is 49 so you don’t need to be a great mathematician to know that we are the majority”, Lawan maintained.  James Kwen 