Adams Oshiomhole, National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is apparently making moves to end the  constant bickering between the APC controlled National Assembly and President Muhammadu Buhari. Oshiomhole on Wednesday visited APC members in the  Senate. He is also billed to visit the party members in the House of Representatives today. Though the agenda of both visits has not been disclosed but Business Day observed that this can not
unconnected with Oshiomhole campaign and inauguration promise to swiftly wade into feud between the legislative and executive arms of government both run by APC. One issue that dominated the campaign promises of Oshiomhole was to ensure smooth working relationship between the APC dominated National Assembly and the Buhari-led Presidency, to end the unnecessary acrimony that often impede implementation of policies and programmes derivable from party’s manifestos. The APC National Chairman made this vow again shortly after he was inaugurated. “I believe that with my own background, things will be resolved amicably because I am used to managing divergences and this is just another task. “It will be done to the satisfaction of our President, governors, senators, representatives, House of Assembly members and all the rank and file members of our party. We will devote all our time to it because that is the oath of office that we have sworn to and we will administer the party on the basis of our constitution,” he said. Oshiomhole while addressing some party leaders and members at the APC National Secretariat, Abuja shortly after the visit to Senate stated that; ” like  I said in the senate, we knew there were challenges when we offered ourselves to contest for offices for which we have now been elected. So, we can’t claim that we didn’t know. “We are not going to lament that we knew, but we didn’t know it was this much. To us, it is a huge opportunity to make a difference, not only for our party, but for our country”, he reiterated.