The 2019 general election is barely seven months away, and even though the electioneering campaigns are yet to begin in earnest, key issues that will dominate the presidential campaign are gradually crawling out. As aspirants to the presidential ticket of the various political parties crisscross the country to carry out consultations and engage with citizens and stakeholders in readiness for the party primary elections, they have been hinting at the issues that would top their campaign agenda in the major election next year. Whereas President Muhammadu Buhari, who won the 2015 presidential poll on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), hinged his campaign on a three-pronged pillar of security, economy and war on corruption, BDSUNDAY’s monitoring of comments by some of the presidential aspirants in the 2019 election show that the dominant issues so far have been economy, security, restructuring, stable power, poverty reduction, youth empowerment, among others. Kingsley Moghalu, a former deputy governor of Central Bank of Nigeria and presidential hopeful on the platform of Young Progressive Party (YPP), who has been on a #ToBuildANationTour across the country, has dwelt on the need to restructure the economy, revamp the power sector, drastically reduce poverty, create employment for youths, promote entrepreneurship and innovation, and support small businesses. “Our population currently stands at about 200 million with unemployment rising from 8.2 percent in 2015 to 18.8 percent. Nigeria currently stands as the poverty capital of the world, with 152 million Nigerians – about 80 percent of our citizens – meeting the criteria of absolute poverty,” Moghalu said at a town hall meeting with residents of Abeokuta, Ogun State, in April. “When you think about the statistics and apply this to the economy, we cannot continue this way,” he said. Also, while on a tour of Ikeja Computer Village in Lagos in June, Moghalu spoke on the need to improve businesses and create jobs through massive investment in technology, entrepreneurship, and education reform. “Technology is the biggest driver of the global economy in the 21st Century, and this sector can play an important role in reviving our economy. For example, most of the wealth in the cell phone business is generated outside our country even though some of the raw materials are taken from Nigeria,” Moghalu said. “Upon becoming president in 2019, we intend to provide the opportunities for locally-based companies to manufacture and assemble mobile phones in Nigeria to boost income,” he said. Nigeria’s economy is still reeling from its worst recession in two decades, with a GDP growth rate of 1.95 percent in the first quarter of 2018, down from 2.11 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017. Elishama Rosemary Ideh, who is vying for the presidential ticket of the Alliance for a New Nigeria (ANN), has similarly centred her agenda on the economy (reform Nigeria’s revenue generation and allocation structure, including federal tax regimes, reduce the cost and simplify the processes and procedures of doing business), welfare of civil servants (ensure fair remuneration for workers in terms of wages, welfare packages and retirement benefits), and war against corruption. In a 10-point agenda released on May 29, Fela Durotoye, another presidential aspirant under the auspices of ANN, said he would focus on power, security, education, healthcare, infrastructure, business and industries, economy, rule of law, job creation, and reducing the cost of living in the areas of food, transport, housing, fuel, and so on. “Together, we will build a Nigeria that is the most desirable nation to live in. A nation where things work and people can prosper and enjoy good success as we together, enjoy peace, economic growth and stability through the collaboration and partnership of all,” Durotoye said in a tweet on May 29. On his part, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who is also aspiring to the presidency on the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) platform, has spoken extensively on restructuring and the economy. Atiku, who formally declared his presidential ambition on July 21 in Yola, Adamawa State, said if elected president in 2019, his government would rebuild the economy, secure the lives and property of Nigerians, and reunite the country. “What the PDP is going to do is restore our economy, restore hope of a greater Nigeria and ensure that we have security of lives and property,” Atiku said. Also speaking during a question and answer session at Chatham House, UK, earlier in April, Atiku had said he would achieve restructuring of Nigeria in six months. Political analysts and politicians who spoke to BDSUNDAY align with the views expressed by the aspirants, saying security, economy and job creation should be the focus of the campaign. Wole Oyelese, a former Minister of Power and a candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the Oyo Central Senatorial District in 2015 general election, said the fight against corruption and urgent restructuring of the country should be priority and top campaign agenda for the presidential candidates. “The focus for me has to be on security and fight against corruption that is the bedrock of all things. Restructuring of the country is also important, because when you do that, there would be security and business would strive,” Oyelese said. “When you have restructured the country, then we can have peace and some of the current agitations would be curtailed. If you go round the country, that is what people want to hear and personally, I think it would be key campaign issue for us here in the South-western part of the country,” he said. Yomi Koleosho, chairman of the Green Party (GP) in Lagos State, said the priority should be tackling the current insecurity in the country and creating jobs for the large number of unemployed youths in the country. “If the people don’t have anything doing, they would not care about infrastructure in the country. The issues for me should be unemployment, stable power, and creation of jobs for the large population of the people who are jobless,” he said. Ayo Kusamotu, politician and political strategist, said considering the worsening security situation in the country, it was important that those who emerge as the candidates of the various political parties should place security at the top of their agenda, as well as revamping of the economy. “The major issue, to me, has to be security. The candidate has to know that right now the biggest issue in the country is the herdsmen killings, and we have seen thousands of people being killed in all parts of the country without any response or proactive measures from the government,” Kusamotu said. “The state of the economy is also an issue. Securing the economy is important, let the people benefit. We need to encourage local business owners; a lot of them think they are at war with this government and its policies. If you can’t make the business climate conducive, how do you now talk about investors coming into the country? In America, President Trump’s focus is on the economy; local economy is crucial,” he said. Kusamotu also raised the issue of corruption, alleging that the government-owned Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is the biggest source of corruption in the country today, “where we don’t know how much we are producing and importing and things are not being well accounted for”. Wale Ogunade, an activist and president of Voters Awareness Initiative, said that revamping the economy should be the focus of the presidential candidates, while criticising the incumbent Buhari administration for poor handling of the economy. “I think the economy should top the campaign agenda of the candidates. The economy presently is in a bad shape. President Buhari has not done well in that sector,” he said. Ogunade, however, urged Nigerians to be more discerning and question their leaders who have failed to keep their campaign promises. “Personally, I don’t see any of the candidates implementing any campaign promise to Nigerians. Nigerians don’t seem to bother if the president implements what he promised them during the campaigns, after they have taken the small free food and few cups of rice the politicians give them,” he said.  CHUKS OLUIGBO & INIOBONG IWOK 