Dizengoff Nigeria has delivered 50 units of 75HP CASE IH tractors to the Nigerian market to boost mechanised agriculture in the country. The deal which will see the leading Nigeria’s leading tractor company, Dizengoff, deliver the 50 units of tractors in 2 batches within 30 days, with the first sets of tractors to be delivered immediately and the second batch at the end of August. Antti Ritvonen, CEO and country manager, Dizengoff Nigeria, assures customers of the organisations commitment to supporting their operations. “We assure you of our best in class after sales support, to minimize any downtime. We are determined and committed to providing quality machinery services to all of our tractor owners in Nigeria,” Ritvonen said in a statement made available to Nigeria. “With our exclusive partnership agreement with CASE IH in the delivery of tractors in Nigeria, in addition with technical support in the areas of training, after sales service support and constant supply of genuine spare parts. We are committed to provide the best possible solution at a most affordable price to all the Nigerian farmers,” he further said. In a similar statement, Damisa Enahoro, commercial manager-Tractor & Implements, Dizengoff Nigeria, said “we are excited as a company to be able to share our technical know-how and quality service delivery, coupled with our many years of experience in providing agricultural solutions to the Nigerian farmers.” “Our robust after sales support services; from training of personnel, servicing of the tractors to ensuring availability of genuine spare parts, has been our unique advantage over other companies. We are also confident in the CASE IH brand of tractor, knowing it is a world class tractor, with over 175 years of providing excellent and superior machineries,” he said. Enahoro explained that through this delivery, farmers across the country, both large scale and smallholder farmers can begin to have increased access to tractors for their farming operations. “This tractor initiative with tractor service provider will help increase the income of our farmers, reducing production costs and help create opportunities for farmers in the country. One of the issues limiting the increase of food production in the country is poor level of mechanization.”