Toby Okechkwu, Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Works, on Thursday mandated the Office of Surveyor General to the Federation (OSGOF) to deploy the multi-million dollar drones recently acquired for area mapping to combat insecurity, desertification, land tenure system, aviation landing system in Nigeria. BusinessDay gathered that the 19 drones acquired by the office of the Surveyor General of the Federation have already been deployed to some states, including: Borno, Katsina, Calabar and Bayelsa. Okechukwu (PDP-Enugu) issued the directive in Abuja, during a working visit to National Assembly, Abuja, by a delegation led by Surveyor General Ebisintei Awudu and a team of Portuguese trainers for the drones. “Since the software is designed to enable flights land despite poor visibility with the aid of Continuous Observation Reference Station (CORS), I will suggest you consider installing them too at our airports. “Now that herders are on the prowl and the menace of Boko Haram both technologies, the CORS and drones will be handy to address our mapping system since only 3 percent of our land mass in Nigeria is recorded. “We as a committee will want you to organise the trainers’ programme as you are doing now, as this will make Nigerians manage the dronesthemselves and train others. “Avail us all you need in the next budget estimates that you will submit to the National Assembly, as we will flow with any technological development in the global arena,” Okechukwu noted. In his remarks, Surveyor General Ebisintei Awudu, who led the delegation said: “we only have 19 CORS in Nigeria scattered all over but the United Kingdom has 112 and this Unarmed Area System (AUS), can conveniently land an aircraft without any visibility. “It has capacity to cover 2km and ability to be airborne for 25 minutes and both underneath and produce land surveys for farmers toenable them take loans from banks.” He explained that the CORS in the country now which are just 19 cannoteffectively cover the entire country as the ones we have now are in Borno, Katsina, Calabar, Bayelsa but because our job is 80 percent
military, I may not want to disclose more on the drones. “But one thing is certain and that is the capability of both drones can’t be quantified so this training by this lecturers from Portugal will make the job easier for us,” Awudu explained.