The Nigeria Export ‎Promotion Council (NEPC) and the African Exim Bank are designing a new investment pathway for the Nigerian economy, with a strategic push to launch $1 billion Nigeria-Africa Investment Programme at the upcoming Africa Trade Fair in Cairo, Egypt, later in the year. HARRISON EDEH writes on the benefits and the imperatives of the agreement, and other issues germane to the African development agenda.  Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy,‎ with about the largest share capital in the Afrexim Bank is working towards expanding its investment at home, and is set to explore that advantage at the upcoming intra-African trade fair coming up in Cairo later in the year. The economy is already consolidating owing largely to Nigeria’s ease of doing business drive‎ and several other initiatives of the Federal Government to attract investments into the economy. For instance, in the first quarter of 2018, energy, oil and gas alongside manufacturing accounted for over $6.3 billion ‎investment inflows. Specifically, in the year 2016, the total capital inflow was $5.4 billion in 2017, there was a material increase in the volume of flows, and it was $12.4 billion. Also, in 2018, actual capital flows translated to $6.3 billion. The investment inflow in the first quarter of 2018 is more than all the flows that came in 2016, signalling that this year is going to be far better than the previous years. Also, 112 projects were tracked in 26 states of the federation and Federal Capital Territory. ‎In line with these Investment attractions, the Nigeria Export Promotion Council working closely with the African Export-Import Bank has announced plans to launch a $1 billion Nigeria-African Trade and Investment Promotion Programme (NAPTIP), which will promote trade in goods, and services while providing risk mitigation instruments that support trade between Nigeria and other African countries. NAPTIP is being proposed to support finance of transactions including those that will be concluded at the intra-Africa Trade Fair (IATF) holding in Egypt in December this year, Kanayo Awani‎, who is the managing director, Intra-African Trade Initiative at Afreximbank said. Awan‎i spoke in Abuja last Monday at the IATA engagement session ahead of the trade fair, which is hoped, would transform the way African countries deal with each other with respect to trade issues. She said Africa could do much more in terms of trade but needed to address huge infrastructure challenges, which had been a major impediment to Intra-African trade. ‎Lack of access to trade and market information was another huge challenge. She said the situation was better illustrated by the bank’s recent survey, which revealed for instance, that Mauritius and Nigeria import leather from Italy and Belgium at much higher cost when compared with South Africa ‎and Botswana who were also cheaper product exporters. In his earlier speech at a panel session, Benedict Okechukwu Oramah, president of the board of Afrexim Bank, said the bank was targeting $25bn intra-African trade deals at the upcoming ‎Intra-African Trade to be held in Cairo. Oramah said the bank was determined to support various initiatives that would drive Intra-African trade, as he also pledged to incentivise companies and multi-laterals that would support the fair with subsidised pavilion stands. “Trade fair presents a big opportunity to promote trade relations in Africa, linking and match-making African businesses through .We expect more than 1,000 exhibitors, 70,000 visitors, and we are expecting ‘B2B’ meetings of various companies properly integrating their trade deals with other companies and various regions coming in more stronger.” ‎Also, he said, “Multi-companies are also expected to have their pavilions wherein, where they would also have opportunities of linking properly with MSMES. ‎”We are working towards a Pan-African payment platform that would address concerns of multiple currencies among various business deals in the continent” Albert Muchanga, commissioner for trade and industry, African Union, at the panel, assured that the political will to get things right ‎was now available with various African leaders getting more committed to Pan-African issues. “Political independence without economic independence is meaningless. African community economic blueprint is being worked on assiduously. The Establishment of the Continental Free Trade Area is a major leap in driving Intra-African Trade and you could see the reaction of various African countries wherein up to 44 countries signed up to it at in March. Currently now 49 countries have signed and six are waiting to join soonest,” he said. ‎According to the African Union representative, “Some of concerns we are dealing with are on market information. We are working assiduously on providing the needed information to all stakeholders to enhance trade relations. “On Infrastructure improvement, we are considering and working towards having Air Africa which would basically be having a single airline for the African continent to facilitate Intra-African trade.” Also, Abba Bello, the NEXIM Bank managing director, said, “Nigeria needs to play more in the Intra-African trade, and on the NEXIM bank, we are working on providing market information .In Europe, South America, ‎Intra-Trade has deepened, and we are expanding the frontiers of our intra-African trade relations. “We are also initiating initiatives to support infrastructure. We are working on supporting road transportation while working ‎on financing and supporting export trading of Nigerian businesses.” ‎Also speaking at the panel, Jali Ibrahim who represented the President, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture urged the bank not to neglect Micro Small and Medium Enterprises. “Most often when you look at big banking corporations in Africa,‎ supporting big businesses while neglecting small enterprises. But the big businesses don’t really lift majority of people out of poverty. “NACCIMA key focus is on organizing Trade fair, and ‎understands the key challenges of small scale industries. You cannot under estimate the impact of small-scale businesses. Market access strategy is very important, and the Trade fair could be a big blow for linking markets and regional blocs.” The United African Bank representative at the event Victor Osadolor, deputy group managing director, UBA, also talked about the bank’s vision to spread across‎ to ensure an enduring strategy that assist financial inclusion in Intra-African Trade. ‎”UBA is happy with what Afrexim is doing to assist financial trade deals for African trade deals. We have offices in about 21 countries in Africa, and we are assisting buying and selling in various African countries assisting on exportation of goods and services across the continents among businesses” he adds further. ‎Most notably, the Afrexim Bank is currently working on a Pan-African payment platform that would see payments made through e-mobile transactions across different continental blocks, while promoting a lowly rate 12% Intra-African trade. The pan-African payment platform would also see various African countries trade deals inter-connecting various buyers and sellers in their local currencies with their respective banks in hitch-free mobile transactions with their phones, while spiking the $3.3 trillion size market. ‎Speaking at a joint press conference on Intra-African Trade, organised with the Nigeria Export Promotion Council, Kanayo Awani, managing director of Intra-African Initiative said the platform would assist in capturing mostly small scale businesses and formalizing their trading activities. Kanayo expressed huge concern that intra-African trade is still on the lowest ebb, stating further that there are already efforts to increase intra-African trade among African countries. Kanayo pointed out further that, “Informal trade is very huge and we at Afrexim bank are aware of that. However, we are working on a pan-African settlement platform to improve payment mechanisms for intra-African trade. The mobile transactions will help to formalise the huge informal trade. ‎”The Pan-African payment would also address concerns of currency, in cross-border trade. It would allow in buying and trading in your local currency. We are looking at launching it in December or latest first quarter of next year to ensure we formalize our trade deals in the continent” he said. “The trade fair is one of our instruments in promoting the continental free Trade Area. We are trying to connect buyers and sellers together in the trade,” Kanayo said. Olusegun Awolowo, executive director, NEPC, also expressed similar concern that Intra-African Trade is still low owing to a number of factors which he listed to include: “Poor infrastructure, poor freight connecting and port systems among others. “Africa is not really trading enough with Africa. President Macron, you recall was here recently, and ‎told us that we are surrounded by francophone countries. He told us it must be our strategy to learn French, package our goods the French way, and dominate francophone African countries.” Speaking further on difficulties in Intra-African trade, he said, “It is easier to move goods from Nigeria to Paris Ports than even Ivory Coast because of infrastructure challenges. “We in NEPC would be working more closely with Afrexim Bank towards having a freight and shipping system that would grow and improve Intra- African trade‎ linking various continental blocs.” The trade fair initiative being promoted by the Afrexim Bank is strategic in connecting the whole African countries together, connecting buyers, and connecting various regional blocks in the continent. The advantage, Awolowo said, is that the trade fair will assist in promoting Nigeria’s trade brand, as the country is concentrating more on processed commodities, rather than just exporting raw materials. Industry watchers say Nigeria should capitalise on the Trade fair and consolidate it’s position as Africa’s largest economy, while establishing linkages to other regional blocs in trading, light manufacturing and services sector.