The formal declaration of Chinedu Onyeizu, an engineer, for office of the Senate in the 2019 election has been scheduled to hold on 14th July, 2018 in Aba, the commercial nerve centre of Abia State. A statement from the campaign organisation of the senatorial aspirant signed by Head, Media Committee, Nwaobia Chigbu, said that the event which holds at the popular Eldorado Event centre in Aba, will be preceded by a public lecture with the theme: ‘The Role of Youth in strengthening Nigeria’s Democratic Evolution’. According to the statement, Distinguished Senator Abu Ibrahim, chairman Senate Committee on Police Affairs, will chair the occasion while Senator Ita Enang, senior special assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters (Senate) is among eminent dignitaries expected to grace the occasion as guests of honour. Others include former governorship aspirant on the platform of People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2015 election in Abia State and petroleum marketing czar, Uche Ogah; Sam Nkire, a member of Board of Trustees of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, among other numerous stalwarts of the APC from across the country. Onyeizu, who would be seeking Abia South Senate nomination on the platform of APC, is a seasoned petroleum engineer and quintessential grassroots personality. He holds Masters of Business Administration from the prestigious Machasseuchets Institute of Technology (MIT), United States. He is also a holder of Post Graduate Certificate in Emerging Leadership Programme from Harvard Kennedy School of Government, which is a branch of Harvard University also based in the United States of America. He is well travelled and possesses vast experience in politics and economy. After his programme at MIT, his focus has been on partnering with governments at state, national and continental levels in seeking solutions on how to solve challenging policy and economic problems on the continent with emphasis in Nigeria. His entrant into partisan politics is informed by a burning desire to contribute his quota as a patriotic Nigerian in any genuine effort to move the country forward. The- youthful- frontline- senatorial hopeful is of the firm believe that Nigerian youth possess the capacity to facilitate early break-away of the country from socio-political and economic burden through involvement with elective positions. The statement further disclosed that youths that answer a number of randomly selected democracy questions correctly, on the floor of the event will smile home with instant scholarship awards at the instance of Onyeizu.