The need for cordial relationship between the Legislature and civil society organisations to ensure effective oversight on the executive arm of government has been stressed.  Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Mohammed Sani-Omolori stated this in Abuja while declaring open a workshop on  State Legislatures and Public Engagement organised by the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS).  He therefore urged civil society groups to share information gathered while monitoring the Executive to the Legislature to help in its oversight duties.  “CSOs ensure, through monitoring, that the government do what they ought to do. One of the main functions and role of the Legislature is oversight of the Executive which is closely linked to the monitoring function of CSOs. Both institutions can assist each other in this regard. The information gathered by CSOs during their monitoring functions is extremely important for legislators,” he said.  Sani-Omolori attributed the negative perception of the Legislature across the globe to lack of engagements between the Legislature and civil society groups.  He explained that to solve the problem, the National Assembly has taken active measures to engage more with CSOs through information provision and involvement in legislative processes.  The CNA disclosed that to further open the legislature to the public at the national level, the National Assembly will for the first run an open week from July 16 to 19, 2018.  The event, he said, will foster interaction  between the public and their elected representatives and deepen public understanding of the workings of the National Assembly in promoting accountability and good governance.  The Clerk called on CSOs to see the Legislature as partners in their quest for good governance.  “The relationship between CSOs and the Legislature has to be based on the principle of ‘give-and-take’. If Legislators are to be more understanding of the nature of civil society organisations, CSOs also need to be more understanding about the nature of Legislators. Sometimes CSOs can be seen as threatening by some Legislators. They can also come across as bullying. This often does not help to win Legislators over.  “Besides formal participation in committees activities such as public hearings and interactive sessions, civil society organisations also need to more astutely engage with individual Legislators. This can be challenging but should not deter positive engagement. Civil Society Organisations should therefore find more effective ways of putting pressure on the Legislature to fulfil its roles,” he said.  In her remarks, the Director General NILDS, Ladi Hamalai urged clerks of State Houses of Assembly to replicate public engagement strategies at the National Assembly at their respective state legislatures. 