The Board of Directors of Ecobank Nigeria Limited on Thursday appointed Patrick Akinwuntan as the managing director designate of Ecobank Nigeria, subject to the approval of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). Prior to this appointment, Patrick was the group executive, consumer banking responsible for leading the Consumer Banking business across Ecobank’s global network of 40 countries, 36 of which are in Africa. As a seasoned banker with over 20 years of senior and executive management experience, Patrick has held several strategic positions for the Ecobank group in Ghana, Togo, and Nigeria. He had previously been a Group Executive Director on the board of ETI and earlier, Executive Director in Ecobank Nigeria. Patrick started his career with Ecobank in 1996 as head of Commercial Bank and Regional Head in Ecobank Nigeria and since then he has held various senior and executive positions in Nigeria and within the Ecobank Group, including Executive Director, Retail Bank, Ecobank Nigeria, Group Chief Finance Officer, ETI, Group Executive Director, Operations & Technology, amongst others. Prior to joining Ecobank, Patrick was a general manager, Springfountain Management Consultants, Lagos from 1993 – 1996; deputy manager – corporate finance, credit and marketing, Manufacturers Merchant Bank Plc, Lagos from 1991 – 1993, and; was a supervisor in Ernst & Young International (Chartered Accountants), Lagos from 1987 – 1991. A fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA), Patrick also holds a Masters in Business Administration from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife. He is an alumnus of the senior executive program (SEP) of the Harvard Business school, a honorary senior member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria and an associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria. In line with the bank’s leadership and business continuity procedures, the outgoing managing director, Charles Kie, will continue to manage Ecobank Nigeria throughout the transition period and ensure a smooth handover to Akinwuntan. John Aboh, Chairman of the Board of Ecobank Nigeria has congratulated Patrick on his new appointment.  He said “We warmly welcome Patrick back to Ecobank Nigeria and look forward to providing him with full support from the Board.   I must, once again, extend our most sincere gratitude to Charles for his tremendous contributions to Ecobank Nigeria’s development and wish him every success in his future endeavors.”