The battle for the seat of power in Oyo State has begun, with over 40 governorship aspirants seeking to replace Abiola Ajimobi come 2019. The battle runs across political parties. The 2019 general election, which is less than eight months, away has various gladiators scheming and declaring interest to contest. Presently, the visible contenders are from the major political parties in the state, the All Progressives Congress (APC), People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Alliance for Democracy (AD), Accord Party (ADC) and aspirants from some of the new parties registered recently by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The ruling party in the state (APC) has the highest number of aspirants. The number of the aspirants is expected to grow as the clock ticks towards election. As it is usual in every contest, there are serious contenders and there are also pretenders. Moses Alake-Adeyemo He is the incumbent deputy governor of Oyo State. He is from Orelope Local Government Area of Oke Ogun, which has never produced a governor since the creation of the state about 42 years ago. A retired banker, Adeyemo was chosen as deputy to Ajimobi on the platform of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) which later transformed into APC and they have enjoyed a good working relationship. The deputy governor made his intention to succeed his boss known a few months ago, after Ajimobi at a function said he was poised to compensate the Oke Ogun people because of their support for him during the 2015 election that made him emerge as the first governor to win a second term in the state. He is among some other aspirants jostling for the same position from the region. Adebayo Alao-Akala He is the immediate past governor of the state, former chairman of the Ogbomoso North Local Government Area, where he hails from. He later became deputy governor under then governor Rasidi Ladoja between 2003 and 2007. He became governor after his principal’s historical impeachment, which was overturned by the Supreme Court after 11 months. Alao-Akala was elected governor of the state in 2007 and was in the saddle till 2011, when Ajimobi defeated him. He re-contested in 2015 on the platform of the Labour Party (LP) but failed. The former governor, who later defected to the APC was earlier rumoured to be eyeing the Senate to represent Oyo North senatorial district. His governorship campaign posters have flooded the state, especially Ogbomoso, announcing his intention to return to the Agodi Government House in 2019. Adebayo Shittu The present Minister of Communications hails from Saki in the Oke Ogun area of the state. He was a former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in the state and had contested gubernatorial election in the state on the platform of the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC). Shittu is currently at loggerheads with the outgoing governor over his governorship ambition and both have been locked in a war of words of late. Shittu, a lawyer, believes that Ajimobi is not favourably disposed towards his ambition, thereby alleging high-handedness and also accuses the governor of failure to allow for a level-playing ground in the process that will determine the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). As the chairman, Board of Trustees of the Buhari/Osinbajo Dynamic Group rooting for the second term of the President, Shittu recently inaugurated the South-West zonal campaign office of the group in Ibadan, during which some bigwigs in the party converged to drum their support for the re-election of the President. Seyi Makinde The Ibadan-born Electronics Engineering graduate of the University of Lagos has been in the political arena of Oyo State since 2007, when he vied for the senatorial slot of Oyo South under the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). He later contested the gubernatorial seat on the same platform in 2015, but the adoption of former Senate Leader, Teslim Folarin, as the preferred candidate among 13 aspirants forced Makinde to defect to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) to contest the poll in 2015. He is currently in the same political boat with Rashidi Ladoja. The “Omi titun” Group promoter is rumoured to be in alliance with Ladoja to contest the 2019 election on the platform of the PDP. Ladoja has formally dropped his ambition to re-contest in 2019. Olufemi Lanlehin Lanlehin’s name was first heard in the present political dispensation in Lagos where he served as Special Assistant to Governor Bola Tinubu early in his first term in office. He was later to part ways with Tinubu and relocated to Ibadan, his home town. Lanlehin is the immediate past senator for Oyo South Senatorial District. He ran against Ajimobi in the 2011 race before the party settled him with the senatorial ticket. He defected to Accord before the 2015 elections and contested again but lost to Senator Soji Akanbi. His defection was after he fell out with Governor Ajimobi. He is now back in the PDP with former governor Ladoja and eyeing the governorship come 2019. Lanlehin is one of the serious contenders for the party’s ticket. Sarafadeen Abiodun Alli Alli is a former local government chairman, former Secretary to the State Government, former Chief of Staff and former chairman of O’dua Group of Companies, has an intimidating political profile. A lawyer, Alli is widely and highly regarded in the conservative political class. He was running mate to Alao-Akala in the 2015 election through the Labour Party. He has since joined the PDP seeking the ticket of the party. Adeniyi Akintola He was born in Iddo Local Government Area of Ibadan, Oyo State. After his primary school education, he lived in the northern part of Nigeria where he stayed for some years before he secured admission into the University of Ife, now Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU). He left OAU to read Law at the University of Ibadan, where he bagged his LL.B degree. He also has a degree in Political Science from the same university. Akintola, who once served as deputy speaker of the Oyo State House of Assembly is gunning for the Agodi Government House on the platform of the APC. He hopes to build on the legacies which Ajimobi will bequeath the state upon completion of his second term. Abiodun Yunus Akintunde Born on the 6 March, 1962 at Onikanko Compound, Pakoyi, Oyo West Local Government Area on Oyo town. The former commissioner in the Oyo State Civil Service Commission between 1999 and 2003, was later appointed as Commissioner for Works and Transport in the first term of Governor Ajimobi, and later an Executive Assistant to the Governor between April 2014 and May 2015. He is a product of The Polytechnic Ibadan as well as Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo Campus, Lagos where he obtained OND in Physics with Electronics and a BSc in Physics and MSc in Energy Studies as well as a Master of Public Administration. He has just bagged a Ph.D in Energy Studies at the University of Ibadan, and he is the first with Ph.D in the course to be produced by the premier university. A staunch member of the APC, Akintunde was chairman, APC State Registration Committee for Osun State in January 2014; chairman, APC State Congress Committee for Kwara State in April 2014; member, APC House of Representatives (serving members) aspirants’ screening committee in 2014 and member, Executive Advisory Committee (EAC) for re-election of Ajimobi between 2014 and 2015, contesting under the platform of APC. Adeolu Akande He was born at Idi-Arere, Ibadan, but hails from Otu, the headquarters of Itesiwaju Local Government Area, in Oke Ogun, Oyo State. He is a holder of BSc, MSc and PhD degrees in Political Science, all from the University of Ibadan. He had worked briefly as a reporter/feature writer and member of the Editorial Board of the Nigerian Tribune between 1991 and 1993 before he was elevated to deputy editor, Sunday Tribune between July 1995 and February 1997. He left the journalism profession when he was appointed Special Assistant (Research and Communication strategies) to ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo between May and December 2003 and subsequently, Chief of Staff to the Oyo State Governor, Senator Abiola Ajimobi, between June 2011 and September 2013. The journalist-turned politician is from the Oyo North Senatorial district of Oyo State. He was recently appointed a professor of Political Science by the Igbinedion University, Okada, in Edo State. He is contesting under the platform of the APC. His billboards and posters are adorning strategic places in the state. Adebayo Adelabu A seasoned banker and Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), hails from Ibadan. He was born to the family of Aderibigbe Adelabu Adegoke. He is a direct grandson of late Adegoke Adelabu (aka Penkelemesi), an articulate grassroots politician of the pre-independence political era. Bayo, as he is fondly called, is also eyeing the Agodi Government House under APC, he was an Executive Director/Chief Financial Officer, First Bank of Nigeria (FBN) Plc. He holds a First Class degree in Accounting from the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, Osun State and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). Temitope Olatoye He was elected member of the Oyo State House of Assembly on the platform of the Accord Party in 2011 after which he defected to the APC. In 2015, he got elected into the House of Representatives to represent Lagelu/Akinyele Federal Constituency. He is the Chairman, House Committee on Urban Development and Regional Planning. Sugar as the lawmaker is fondly called, had a brief stint as a teacher at Sagamu High School, Makun, Sagamu and Orile-Ilugun Comprehensive High School, both in Ogun State before venturing into partisan politics. He was appointed Special Adviser to ex-Governor Gbenga Daniel of Ogun State, having been the PDP Youth leader in Ogun Central. He too has signified his intention to contest under APC with his billboards and posters everywhere in the city. Zacheaus Adelabu He is from Iwo Ate in the Afijio area of Oyo Town. A first class graduate of Accounting from the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), he is an accomplished technocrat and consultant with Procter and Gamble company. He was the Finance Commissioner in Oyo State during the first term of Governor Ajimobi. He is also interested in governing Oyo State after his former boss by 2019. He is running under the APC. Abdulfatai Buhari Buhari, who hails from Ogbomoso was a former member of the House of Representatives between 2003 and 2007 on the platform of the PDP. He was appointed Commissioner for Agriculture and Water Resources during the first term of Governor Ajimobi before winning election into the Senate for Oyo North senatorial district. Currently, a member of the Red Chamber of the National Assembly, Buhari is not seeking a return to the legislative chamber, but nursing the ambition of becoming governor of the Pace Setter State under APC. Rilwan Soji Akanbi Akanbi was a member of the House Representatives under the SDP during the administration of the late Governor Kolapo Ishola. He was later appointed as a Special Adviser during the administration of the late Governor Lamidi Adesina. Akanbi, who hails from the same Oyo South Senatorial District with Governor Ajimobi was elected into the Senate in the 2015 election. He has shown interest in becoming governor under APC platform. Oyedele Hakeem Alao He is a Structural Engineer with keen interests in the Oil and Gas sector. He is the CEO of OceanSalt Oil and Gas Engineering Ltd. Young and vibrant Alao is the leading aspirant on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). He and many others are repositioning AD in Oyo State to take over from APC. His billboards, posters and jingles have flooded the state in recent months. Born in Ibadan from Akinyele Local Government, he is adjudged to be independent, without any known godfather/political investor as is common with the other aspirants. An insight into his campaign shows he understands issues confronting the state and has potentially effective solutions. These can be deduced by the messages on his billboards, social media platforms and website. Most of his supporters described him as a modern leader that can beat all other aspirants hands down in any debate on economy, education and other aspects of governance. Although some of his admirers are claiming he is related to the late Aare Musulumi of Yoruba Land, Arisekola Alao. Soji Eniade The former Head of Service in Oyo State is also a strong contender. He is banking on his civil service experience and rapport with Governor Ajimobi. Aside that Eniade is also believed to be the son of a foremost Ibadan politician. As a late entrant who recently declared his intention, he is said to be the favourite of Governor Ajimobi for the exalted office. He declared to run on the platform of the broom party in 2019. Abideen Olaiya Abideen Olaiya is the only known Accord Party aspirant in the state. He may end up being the sole contender in the party. Over the years, Accord Party has become depopulated as a result of incessant cross-carpeting by its major leaders. Akin Onigbinde Akin Onigbinde is a Senior Advocate of Nigeria. The Ogbomoso-born legal luminary is a former Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly. He is contesting on the platform of Alliance for Democracy (AD). Should Hakeem Alao not get the party ticket in the primaries, Onigbinde is widely seen as an alternative but he is reaching out beyond the party. Kola Balogun Kolawole Mohammed Balogun, who is contesting on the platform of APC was Commissioner for commerce and industries during former governor Akala regime. Born on July 27th, 1956, he is from the famous Olubadan Ali-Iwo ruling house of Ibadanland. His educational career took him through Ratibi Muslim Primary School, Oluyoro, Ibadan, St. Peter’s College, Abeokuta, Ogun State, and North Texas State University, Denton, Texas, USA. He graduated with both the Bachelor of Arts (B.A) and Doctors of Philosophy (Ph.D.) degrees in Political Science Isaac Owolabi Babalola The Ibadan-born medical doctor-cum politician is one of the strong contenders for the governorship race in 2019 under APC. Owolabi is a politician with a deep sense of history and deep-rooted intellectual capacity. A former Commissioner for Health, twice, in the Alao-Akala administration (2006 and from 2007 to 2011), he is reputed to be one of the few personalities in the immediate past administration in the state who were bold enough to look at his boss face during Akala regime. Dele Adigun A former permanent secretary in Oyo State, Dele Adigun, was a super civil servant who got to the zenith of career before he retired from the Oyo State Civil Service in 2002. He had variously served as the Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff and as a commissioner. Adigun, a veteran in the governorship is second to none in terms of knowledge of government and governance. He was a top chieftain of the Accord Party before, but contesting under the new African Democratic Party for the 2019 governorship race. Kehinde Olaosebikan Olaosebikan is an accomplished journalist, tourism promoter and public relations expert. Well-rooted in grass-root politics, he made his entry into the state politics when he was appointed the Chief Press Secretary to the late Governor Lam Adesina in 1999. After an unsuccessful attempt to take a shot at the House of Representatives as the candidate of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) for Oluyole Federal Constituency in 2003, Olaosebikan was elected chairman of Oluyole Local Government Area in 2007 during Senator Ladoja’s administration. An adroit politician, he was also appointed by Governor Alao-Akala as the chairman of the same local council in 2010. He recently decamped to APC and declared interest to run under the platform in 2019. He is the chairman of one of the Schools’ Governing Boards recently inaugurated by Governor Ajimobi. Remi Olaniyan A practising engineer, Olaniyan is from Igboho in the Oke Ogun area of the state. He is said to be a gentle and soft-spoken new politician who recently retired from the Oyo State Civil Service as a permanent secretary. A former chieftain of the Accord Party who recently defected to APC, Olaniyan was the General Manager of Oyo State Road Maintenance Agency (OSTROMA) where he was said to have made some significant positive contributions. Olaniyan can be described in politics as a Ladoja man but left him to join APC, he has shown interest to contest on the broom party platform next year. Azeez Adeduntan Adeduntan is the Commissioner for Health and he is a respected surgeon from the United States of America and a brother of the late strongman of Ibadan politics, Lamidi Adedibu. He is said to have been primed by Governor Ajimobi for the governorship seat in 2019. The medical doctor had tried to realise his governorship ambition, using virtually all the available political platforms in the state, the last being PDP. But as soon as he could not get the ticket, he jumped ship and moved to APC. Debo Adesina A journalist, Debo Adesina, is seen as one of those political gladiators eyeing the highest political office in Oyo State, currently occupied by Ajimobi. Described as the longest serving editor in Nigeria, he was appointed the Editor-In-Chief of the Guardian Newspapers, after a major shake-up of the senior staff of the newspaper in November, 2012. Prior to his elevation, he was the Editor, Daily and Deputy Editor-In-Chief of the newspaper. Though he is yet to make public the platform upon which he wishes to realise his political ambition, speculations are rife that the Okaka, Oke Ogun-born guru of journalism may eventually bow to pressure and throw his hat into the ring as the race towards the Oyo State Government House gathers momentum under APC. Bimbo Adekanbi The state Commissioner for Finance and Economic Development was the Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor Ajimobi in his first term. An indigene of Ibadan from Ona Ara Local Government Area of the state, he is said to be about the closest appointee in the government to the Ajimobi family and handles most of the big assignments in the government like the ‘Yes O’ youth employment programme, the SUBEB award of contracts, the state community development agency and many of the infrastructure projects. He is eying the APC ticket. Senator Teslim Folarin Folarin is a son of  Hamzat Folarin. He is from Baale House in Oja Igbo area of Ibadan North-East Local Government area of Oyo State. Folarin is the Head (Mogaji) of his family House and a ranked traditional Chief in Ibadan Land. Folarin attended primary school in Lagos; his secondary education was completed at Nigeria’s premier secondary school, Methodist Boys High School. Folarin holds a B.Sc (Hons) degree in Political Science from the University of Ibadan and a diploma degree from Harvard University, USA. Folarin contested and won the senatorial seat to represent Oyo Central in 2003 at the age of 39 years on the platform of the PDP and was re-elected for a second term in 2007 on the platform of the same PDP. Folarin remains the only legislator in Oyo State who has served two terms at the Senate. At the Senate, he was appointed Leader of the Senate. Folarin also served on the Senate Committee on Business & Rules, Marines and Transport although his particular interests were in education, power supply and water resources. Folarin was involved in the Power probe in 2008. As the Leader of the Senate, he led debates on all Executives Bills and sponsored several private Bills himself.[2] These included the Insurance Act, Armed Forces Pension Act and several others. Folarin won the gubernatorial ticket of his great party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2014. He lost the election to the incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi of the All Progressive Congress. Folarin, who is eyeing the Agodi Government House in 2019, defected to APC in December 2017. Senator Ayo Adeseun Adeseun had been in the House of Representatives and the Senate. He has never hidden his intention to run for the governorship seat in the state and he was said to have parted ways with Governor Ajimobi, owing largely to his ambition for the office in 2015. His strength lies in his performance in the National Assembly which brought development to his constituency. He is also reputed to be a generous grass-root politician. Adeseun who is likely to contest in 2019,is still in the PDP. Isaac Ajiboye Omodewu Isaac Ajiboye Omodewu is the Commissioner for Lands and Urban Development in the state. He hails from Itesiwaju Local Government. Omodewu is one of Ajimobi’s close associates from Oke-Ogun zone. A business man and farmer, Omodewu hopes to ride on the party platform to emerge the governorship candidate of the APC in 2019.