A new accounting rule mandating banks to make further disclosures of their assets, portfolio, and including making provisions in advance for non-performing loans, is seen as a principle that will cause no harm on banks regulatory capital, the US based global rating agency Fitch said in a report released yesterday. “The regulatory capital ratios for rated Nigerian banks are not under threat following the first-time application of IFRS 9 accounting standard,” Fitch said.
This is contrary to earlier views by analysts that Banks’ capital adequacy ratio may worsen as the adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 9 could force lenders to make more provisions for loans that were thitherto not recognized.
“If Nigerian Banks comply with the IFRS 9 requirement, their books are going to be much more reliable and have greater credibility thus, I agree with the report,” Bismarck Rewane, CEO, Financial Derivatives Company Limited said in a phone response to BusinessDay.
Nigerian banks have to reflect the full impact of additional expected loss reserves due under IFRS 9 in regulatory capital from 1 January 2018, the date on which the new accounting standard was introduced into the country.
Some other regulators have allowed banks to stagger the impact on regulatory capital over a period of years, allowing them more time to make good any shortfalls, often over a five-year period.
Nigerian banks’ First Quarter (Q1) March 2018 financial statements restated equity at 1 January 2018 to reflect the impact of additional IFRS 9 expected loss reserves required in line internal model calculations. The impact varies considerably across banks but no breaches of regulatory capital ratios materialised.
“The average non-performing loans (NPLs) of banks today in Nigeria is about 14 percent. And if you take away the four banks that are challenged, it could be lower,” Rewane concluded.
Ayodeji Ebo, MD/CEO at Lagos- based Afrinvest Securitries Limited said this positive comment from Fitch further buttresses the efforts of the CBN to ensure Nigerian banks have strong capital base to absorb external shocks.
According to him, most of the major Nigerian banks have very strong capital base (above 15.0% regulatory threshold) due to the strict monitoring and policies of the CBN. Policy introduced includes banks with CAR below regulatory limits are restricted from paying dividend to provide further buffer for these banks.
The Central bank of Nigeria (CBN), on Wednesday, February 15, 2018, amended the rules on internal capital generation and dividend payout ratio.
The new rules state that Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) and Discount Houses (DHs) that have capital adequacy ratios of at least 3 percent above the minimum requirement, Composite Risk Rating (CRR) of “low” and Non-Performing Loan (NPL) ratio of more than 5 percent but less than10 percent, shall have dividend pay-out ratio of not more than 75 percent of profit after tax while those that meet the minimum capital adequacy ratio but have a CRR of “Above Average” or an NPL ratio of more than 5 percent but less than 10 percent shall have dividend payout ratio of not more than 30 percent
IFRS 9 was approved by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) in 2008 became operational on January 1, 2018. It requires commercial lenders to change their impairment model from backward looking to forward looking. And with implementation of IFRS 9, banks would now have to make provisions for excess credit loss rather than incurred loss. The new policy wants them to take into account their operating environments in making bad debt provisions. The implementation of IFRS 9 would make banks more selective in loans they extend to customers, thereby taking a toll on underlying operating profit. “Despite the limited initial impact of IFRS 9, we continue to signal capital weakness in the sector, arising largely from the low coverage of impaired loans and sizeable credit concentrations that expose banks to potentially large losses,” Fitch said. “While no material weakness in regulatory capital ratios emerged as a result of IFRS 9, we maintain that capitalization remains at risk from weak asset quality and operating environment risks.” Banks in Africa’s most populous nation and largest economy are recovering from souring bad loans as the economy improved on the back of higher oil production and the apex bank’s new foreign exchange windows.  BUNMI BAILEY & MICHEAL ANI 