Following the crisis that has rocked Nigerian football recently, Gianni Infantino, president of FIFA, speaking to group of accredited global journalists for the FIFA World Cup in Luzhniki stadium in Russia, affirmed that Amaju Pinnick remains the only elected and recognised president of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) by FIFA. “The Nigeria Football Federation has a president and his name is Amaju Pinnick. FIFA is very clear about government interference in football,” Infantino affirmed. He further noted that FIFA frowns at government interference in legal matters in football. “Our stands, regulations are very clear that there should not be any government interference in the running and administration of football association of any country. “If any external bodies thinks they can change it, then Nigeria stand the risk of been banned from football activities just like other countries,” the FIFA boss warned. “We have a democratic process at FIFA, it’s very clear cut and simple case as far as FIFA is concerned. We have made it clear to Nigeria and maybe you press can help us transmit the message clearer enough.” In a swift response, Victor Iroele, senior special assistant on media to Chris Giwa led factioned NFF board debunked the treat of FIFA ban, adding that they have not gone against the rules of FIFA. “We call on Nigerians not to panic about the comment from FIFA President, Gianni Infantino as we have not gone outside the statutes of the Nigeria Football Federation to address the present leadership impasse. The statutes brought us together in football and no single individual can be greater than the country,” the statement read. “For the avoidance of doubt, FIFA letter dated June 5th, 2018 in paragraph three line four states:”…recourse to ordinary courts of law is prohibited unless specifically provided for in FIFA regulations and disputes within a member association shall be taken to an independent and duly constituted arbitration tribunal recognised under the rule of the Association, or confederation, or to CAS”  Anthony Nlebem, reporting from Moscow/Russia