Mohammed Musa Bello,the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, has announced that about N70billion has been earmarked by the Federal Government towards Infrastructural development within the Capital City and its environs, pending approval from the National Assembly for 2018. Bello who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Mohammad Mai-Bornu on Tuesday made this known in an address presented at the opening ceremony of the Abuja Investment Expo themed: “Land development: A catalyst for economic advancement”. Bello while lauding the Abuja Chamber of Commerce for its contribution to infrastructural development and its collaboration with Shelter Aid Organization in organizing the event, noted further that meaningful success in infrastructure cannot be fully realized without the contribution of the private sector. “Efforts are ongoing to work out the realistic GDP for the Territory and we are hopeful that Abuja will record remarkable growth in all the relevant economic indices” Shedding more light on some of the achievements of the Ministry, he went on to say that according to data provided by the National Bureau of Statistics, Abuja has been placed as a leading destination for Foreign Direct investment in Nigeria. Also,Babatunde Fashola,the Minister of Power, Works and Housing represented by Temitope Onaeko, speaking at the event, made it known that the Ministry is actively working on a project which provides affordable housing in 34 states, excluding Lagos and Rivers on the basis of scarce land. The National Housing Program which he believes will continue well into the next political dispensation, will focus on the provision of housing for low and middle income earners in the country. When asked on how this can be achieved, putting into consideration steep prices of land and housing in general, Onaeko stated that on the insistence of the Minster, the program has made it imperative to make use of Nigerian made building materials which will reduce cost of building and in turn reduce the prices of the houses to be placed on the market. According to Onaeko, a fund of N500m has been allocated to the Nigerian Mortgage Refinance Company, to help Nigerians have access to proper mortgage plans in order to reduce the problem of housing in the country. Johnson Anene Somadina, vice president in charge of commerce at the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that the chamber is dedicated towards provision of affordable housing that hasn’t been compromised in terms of its quality. “We will not sacrifice quality on the altar of affordability” Somadina stated further, that demand and supply will be the major driving force that determines the pricing of housing as opposed to a dependency on artificial price lowering techniques. Calling for government’s intervention in the issue of land sales and purchasing, he also called for easy access to landed property for investors and developers as opposed to dependency on third party land spectators. “It is important to canvas for local production of building materials and strengthening of mortgage institutions” he said.  HARRISON EDEH, CONRADE OMODIAGBE ABUJA 