Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has proposed an expenditure framework of N271.532 billion for the 2018 fiscal year. Muhammad Bello, FCT minister, made this known Tuesday during a budget session with the Senate Committee on FCT in Abuja. Bello explained that, the figure showed an increase of N49.171 billion over the appropriation for 2017, which was at N222. 360 billion. He gave a breakdown of the sectoral allocations with highest allocation to Capital Expenditure, which got N154.232 billion, representing 56.8% of the estimate. According to the presentation, overhead cost came second with N61 billion or 22.5% while Personnel was estimated to cost N56 billion, representing 20.68% of the total.
Bello said the increase in the 2018 budget was based on the expected higher revenue generation by the FCT in view of the take-off of the FCT Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and expected increased funds from the federation account. The minister revealed that the Administration would pay important attention to the completion of ongoing infrastructure projects to make the city more liveable as N70 billion has been earmarked for this purpose. He explained that N4.7 billion would go to on-going critical new infrastructure projects, while N21.1billion is proposed for ongoing as well as new infrastructure projects in satellite towns. Cosmas Uzodinma, chief press secretary to minister, noted that the amount of N37.96 billion had been set aside for the Education Sector while the Health Sector received a whopping N22.8Billion. According to Uzodinma, “other major expenditure areas include Resettlement & Compensation – N8.9Billion and Transportation Sector – N20.5 billion. Of this amount, the Abuja Light Rail Project would gulp N12.3 billion. Environment, Water and Agriculture sectors together have been allocated approximately N16.3 billion among others.” He stressed that the budget, which has been described as a balanced budget, would be funded from the 1 percent of the 52.68 percent Statutory Allocation to the Federal Government from the Federation Account, Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and other sources as contained in the Fiscal Framework of the Federal Government. In a remark, Dino Melaye, chairman of Senate Committee on FCT, expressed delight at the remarkable improvement recorded in the budget performance for the 2017 fiscal year, which showed a 62% level of accomplishment.
Melaye congratulated the FCTA for the successful commissioning of the Abuja Rail Mass Transit System, while harping on the necessity for honesty, prudence and transparency in the management of government resources.