In a proposed bill before the National Assembly, Nigeria’s Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) is pushing vigorously for a platform that allows increased access to finance to small businesses and as well help Nigeria play more in both the intra-Africa and international trade arena. The new law, Factoring (Assignment and Receivables) bill, 2017, seeks to provide promote a non-bank financing involving the purchase of receivables, which essentially converts conversion credit sales to
cash at a discount. Abba Bello, NEXIM Bank Managing Director said that as an Export Credit Agency and a trade facilitating institution, the Nigerian Export-Import Bank is concerned that the poor access to finance was
hindering businesses and has meant that a larger proportion of trade in the non-oil exports sector takes place in the informal sector and are therefore not captured in government statistics. The bank is further concerned about the high level of such informal trade in Nigeria and Africa, with informal non-oil exports recently estimated at a minimum of $12bn annually in the country as against
recorded non-oil export trade averaging about $3bn annually in recent times. He said while this challenge is a reflection of the large informal economy, estimated at 41.43% of Nigeria’s GDP in 2015 by the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics (NBS), it is also symptomatic of the dearth/poor
access to export credit, particularly amongst the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), who are the principal players in cross border trade. Empirical data released by the Central Bank of Nigeria indicates that less than 1% of the total loans and advances disbursed annually were allocated to the non-oil export sector over the years. Against this background, NEXIM, according to Bello saw the need to partner with trade facilitating institutions namely Afreximbank and FCI and indeed other Stakeholders, under the auspices of the CBN Financial System Strategy 2020, to develop and promote Factoring as an alternative trade finance instrument and an SME financial inclusion strategy. Factoring therefore is a form of structured trade finance, whereby a trader sells its accounts receivable (i.e. invoices) to a third party (called a Factor) at a discount, in exchange for immediate cash with which to finance continued operations would help resolve most of the poor financing issues. “This will be one of the financing options that will mitigate the tradition challenges of SMEs in meeting the eligibility criteria for accessing credit from the traditional banking institutions,” the Managing Director said, speaking at the Nigerian Factoring Roundtable held in Abuja. The Factoring Bill is being championed by bill led by the Chairmen of the Senate Committee and the House of Representatives Committee on Banking, Senator Rafiu Ibrahim and Honourable Jones Onyereri respectively. The draft Bill was first produced by the Nigerian Factoring working Group since October, 2016 and has already passed through the first and second readings at the National Assembly and indeed the public hearing, which was held 2 days ago. As contained in a NASS document cited by BusinesDay, Factoring involves the purchase by a financial institution, called a Factor of receivables, that are invoices, due to suppliers-exporters by customers, with the factor providing their client with fast access to at an agreed percentage of the face value of the receivables and the assumption of full credit and factored debt collection responsibilities. Joseph Nnanna, Deputy Governor Central Bank of Nigeria who also doubles as the NEXIM bank Chairman, said the Bill is a significant collaborative efforts that started over three years ago between NEXIM, and some key players in the Public/Private Sector, under the auspices of the CBN Financial System Strategy 2020 who saw the need to develop an alternative trade financing instrument to promote financial inclusion and boost access to funding by the SMEs. He said the bill if passed, will not only promote a suitable regulatory/legal environment to support the rapid development of Factoring services, but will also contribute towards integrating Nigeria into the global Factoring market. This, according to him will position the Nigerian economy to benefit from the global Factoring volume, which reached €2.6 trillion in 2017, according to the data released by FCI, with Africa contributing less than 1%. “This will also serve to promote non-oil export trade in line with the objectives of the Federal Government of Nigeria under the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan and also benefit the SMEs, many of whom have limited access to finance through conventional banking institutions, owing to the constraints of collateral, amongst numerous other challenges,” he stated.