Leading African financial institution, Coronation Merchant Bank has been named the Best Investment Bank in Nigeria  at the 2018 World Finance Awards. Since 2007, World Finance magazine has been celebrating individual and company achievements, innovation and brilliance through its annual awards. The judging panel boasts over 230 years of financial and business journalism, supported by a research team that works relentlessly to ensure its award winners are the most deserving in their sector. Every year, it provides a comprehensive coverage and analysis of the financial industry, international business and the global economy. According to Michael McCaw, Group Managing Director of World Finance, “The World Finance Banking Awards 2018 celebrates the institutions that can confidently proclaim they are part of a more responsible and sustainable industry than the one that existed ten years ago. Over the past 12 months, these organisations have helped set new benchmarks for the financial sector in terms of customer service and digital innovation. One Bank that has recorded remarkable accomplishments in its very short years of operation is Coronation Merchant Bank. The Bank has established itself as a dominant player, sitting at the very top of the investment banking industry in its native Nigeria.” Commenting on the award, Abu Jimoh, Group Managing Director/CEO of Coronation MB said, “we are delighted to be recognized as the Best Investment Bank in Nigeria. Our successes and achievements over the years is a reflection of the hard work and commitment of our staff, management and Board in ensuring we maintain our core values of integrity, innovation and excellence in service delivery”.He further stated that, “This award affirms that we are on course to achieving our long-term goal of becoming Africa’s premier investment bank”. Coronation Merchant Bank group was established to fill the gap in a long-underserved market segment, seeking to address the need for long term capital across key sectors of the economy. The Group offers investment and corporate banking, private banking/wealth management and global markets/treasury services to its diverse clients. It also offers securities trading/brokerage, asset management and trustees services via its subsidiaries; Coronation Securities Limited, Coronation Asset Management Limited respectively. Driven by its vision of becoming Africa’s premier investment Bank and with an asset base of over N130bn, the Banking group is certain to leverage its privileged direction by some of Nigeria’s individuals who excelled and rose to the top of merchant banking sector at its height of excellence to become the industry model for risk management, corporate governance and responsible business practices. Coronation Merchant Bank’s quest for industry distinction is evident in its recently unveiled corporate identity which has been designed to communicate the Group’s vision, ambition and inner strength.