With several property developers, especially in Abuja and Lagos, erecting high-rise buildings of over seven to 25 floors, the crucial question on the lips of safety experts is how safe are the occupiers, particularly those on top floors in case of fire occurrence. This indeed has become a genuine concern given the increasing incidence of fire occurrence in buildings through electric fault or other sources. Fire accidents in some high-rise buildings have resulted in catastrophic loss of lives and properties. Of late, skyscrapers are increasingly dotting parts of Lagos which the experts believe should be equipped with adequate precautionary measures against fire occurrence for safety of the occupiers. Perhaps, due to scarcity of land, Lagos State government appears to be encouraging skyscrapers which is commendable but in constructing such structures, the contractors should equally submit safety procedures for the buildings before the  plan is approved, Jumade Adejola, the CEO of Surveillant Fire Limited told BusinessDay recently in Lagos. “It is good that buildings are going vertical but the issue is what they are putting in place to ensure the safety of the occupiers is secured. If there is fire incidence on 10th floor, for instance, what are the safety measures for those above the 10 floor, how do you evacuate those people? It is not just about aesthetics, rather, when vertical buildings are being put in place the major consideration is safety architecture of that building”, Jumade said. Jumade who has been in the business of fire-fighting equipment for over 20 years stated that in addition to equipping high rise buildings with genuine fire-fighting equipment, the buildings should be constructed with helipad on top for evacuation of people. He suggested that the building owners don’t necessarily need to own helicopters, but they can sign MoU with helicopter operators within their cities for evacuation of people in case of fire occurrence. Building owner should not necessarily own a helicopter, “but if you have MoU with helicopter company in case of any emergency, the helicopter can come on top of the building and evacuate people”. Reminded that foundations of buildings with helipad should be more solid, he said anybody constructing vertical structure must be ready for the cost of stronger foundation that can carry helicopter and its vibration for evacuation purposes. He commended Lagos state for its efforts and investments on safety. On National Emergency Management Agency, he suggested the siting of at least 10 emergency centers in each geo-political zone for emergency preparation in the country. “Emergency preparation must not be reactive but proactive”, he said.  Daniel Obi 