CHIKEZIE NWOSU is the chairman, Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Nigerian Council. In an interview with FRANK UZUEGBUNAM, editor, West Africa Energy Intelligence, he talks about SPE Nigeria’s role in developing and shaping oil and gas policy framework amongst other issues. Excerpts: What has been SPE Nigeria’s main activities and achievements since its founding? SPE Nigeria has grown from the Lagos Section in 1973 to five sections in Abuja, Benin, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Warri, with 32 affiliated students’ chapters, over 4300 professional members and over 4900 student members. Its main activities include the continuous development of professionals in the oil and gas industry in technical, ethical and strategic leadership, outreach programs to bring Energy to the primary, secondary and tertiary institutions (and the grassroots) through the Catch Them Young, Ambassador Lecture Program and the Energy4Me outreach, socially responsible programs and advocacy on the responsible use of oil and gas held annually across all the SPE Nigeria sections, advocacy to policy makers and the legislature on critical energy issues, gas to power, gas based industry, renewables leveraging on oil and gas experiences, diversification of the Nigerian economy etc. What is SPE Nigeria’s role in developing and shaping oil and gas policy framework? The SPE is a non-profit and apolitical professional organization, regulated by international best practices through the SPE International (established in 1957). We are therefore in a unique position to provide unbiased advice to the authorities for the better good of Nigeria, without the accusation of working in our own, or anyone else’s, personal interest. In addition, we provide an international perspective, through both our relationship with SPE International and, especially, through a lot of our members who have many decades of experience working internationally. Of recent, many policy areas the Nigerian Government have undertaken, e.g. the ‘7 Big (Must) Wins’ (which has embedded within, the National Oil and Gas policies) and the Petroleum Industry Bill, are supported either indirectly by SPE NC or directly through our members who consult for both the National Assembly and the Federal Executive. This international perspective is perfectly balanced with our local knowledge and provides a powerful tool to influence and support Government policy for the benefit of all stakeholders. The SPE Nigeria will continue to play a strong role in policy formulation and execution through ensuring that the outcomes of its engagements are well documented and presented to the authorities, and continuing to encourage its members to provide the expertise in their field/s to Government, either through consultancy or service, During the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS2018) hosted by the federal government of Nigeria, at the ministerial session in which you were part of contributors: you used of phrase ‘7 MUST WINs’. How do you expect the 7 MUST WINs to be driven? For the ‘7 MUST WINS’ to be successful, they must outlive the people, groups, committees etc. that have birthed and shaped them. This requires buy-in from all the industry players that typically outlive the government of the day. The key players all have umbrella organizations that have existed for a long time, and it is imperative that they speak with one voice and continue to emphasize the ‘must win’ nature of the ‘BIG 7’. These umbrella organizations include the OPTS, IPPG, PETAN, NAPE, NGA and, of course, SPE Nigeria. We cannot afford to manage this process in the same manner the PIB has been, or we will have the same outcome – a more than decade long delay in implementation, and the attendant flight of capital investments from the Nigerian oil & gas industry. Add to this the challenging outlook on the future energy balance, and it becomes evident that there is an urgent need to solidify on the early gains of the ‘7 MUST WINS’, and embed the tenets in the way we do business in the oil and gas industry. Now that the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) has been passed, what are your expectations? The Petroleum Industry Governance Bill that was sent to Presidency for assent is one part of the four-pronged PIB. It is important to note that dividing the original PIB into four manageable bills by the 8th National Assembly is to be applauded and tactically allows the passage of the full PIB in four separate (but ultimately consistent) bills. The other three bills – The Petroleum Industry Administration Bill (PIAB), the Petroleum Host & Impacted Communities Development Bill (PHICB) and the Petroleum Industry Fiscal Bill (PIFB) have all been ‘publicly heard’ by the Joint National Assembly Committee on the PIB. I was at the hearing in Abuja and it became apparent that there were still fundamental differences among major stakeholders. These differences are however not insurmountable, but all parties must walk away from positions of ‘winning for themselves’ and find the right compromises for all to benefit from the expected growth in the industry this bill will engender. On how the industry will change – I will touch on a few important areas and/or principles. The Single Industry Regulator, which is one of the tenets of the ‘7 MUST WINS’ is captured within the Governance bill as the Nigerian Petroleum Regulatory Commission (NPRC), which in principle will take over the functions of the current DPR and PPRA. This a very positive change and, with the right governance structure and people, should result not only in the needed transparency in regulatory activities from the upstream to downstream sectors, but also in the transparency in the reporting of rent and royalties in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. The PHICB is crafted to ensure that the Host and Impacted Communities become partners in the exploitation of resources in their locality, and is expected to bring the needed peace in these oil and gas communities to enable smooth operations of the industry. The PIFB strives to create an equitable distribution of each barrel of oil between government and investors / operators, with a recognition of ‘terrain equity’. It also is crafted to ensure that only responsible investors / operators can derive benefit from these investments (through production allowances linked to delivering on production promises, cost efficiency and hydrocarbon reserves replacement). How can Nigeria increase its revenues from other sources using oil and gas as enabler? I have mentioned energy as an enabler, especially Gas to power. The National Gas policy must open the vast opportunities to deliver energy and earn significant revenue from our abundant gas resources. We are the regional giants in gas, and the entire West African (possibly Sub-Saharan Africa) region will boom if Nigeria gets it right. With our population, a booming West African region will create huge opportunities in just about any industry. Think India and China!!! Nigerian companies in the renewable energy space (solar, wind, biomass etc.) will also benefit from the human capital we have developed (top class engineers), adaptable technology and the strides that have been made by our partner companies in R&D on renewables. What factors will drive oil and gas as enabler for Nigeria government diversification program? Quite simple – creating the right business environment for the industry to thrive will enable the much-needed diversification. Policy that enables this growth is clearly critical, but long-term stability of the business environment is also important. Policy will serve to trigger the first tranche of investments, but longer term growth in these investments will only come where Nigeria has a stable investment climate. We must earn the respect and trust of local and international investments. 