One of the presidential aspirants on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ahmed Makarfi has decried the use of security agents in the country to manipulate election results saying people should be allowed to freely choose their leaders. Makarfi, former acting national chairman of the party and former governor of Kaduna state is one of the many presidential aspirants seeking to be the flag bearer of PDP in next year’s general election. Other aspirants include former vice president Atiku Abubakar; former governors of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido and Rabiu Kwankwaso of Kano state as well as Ibrahim Saminu Turaki Speaking in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital when he visited Governor Udom Emmanuel in his office, he said the people should be allowed to choose who they want without the institutions of government being used to suppress the aspirations and wishes of others. “Why can’t people be allowed the latitude to freely choose what they want without using institutions of government to suppress the aspirations and wishes of others? This must have to come to a stop,” he stated. The presidential aspirant, who said he was also interested in employment generation, provision of enabling environment for private sector investments to thrive, education loan scheme for indigent student  said he would also work to ensure ‘institutional restructuring,’ and  causing the states to work in partnership with the central government. He thanked Governor Emmanuel and the State PDP Chairman, Obong Paul Ekpo for their contributions to getting the party up and doing at the national level with a promise to also get it right for the country by building a consensus and making decisions that will outlive the people if given the opportunity. Makarfi who said he was in the state to present his presidential credentials to the party hierarchy and raise some salient issues and evolve ways and means of giving to the people what they desire expressed satisfaction with the Governor and the party in the state for the reception at the party secretariat coupled with rich attendance and inputs during interaction. Earlier, Governor Emmanuel lauded Makarfi for being patient and tolerant with party members, recounted his interaction with major stakeholders from Kaduna state who spoke in glowing terms about Senator Makarfi as a man who bridged religious and ethnic gaps while serving his people as a governor. He described him as someone who has diligently served the party and appreciated the fact that people like Makarfi has indicated interest in the race. The governor advised him to be willing to make more sacrifice and close ranks to work with whoever emerges as a flag bearer after the primaries in the spirit of sportsmanship should the ticket elude him.