The property and construction market in Nigeria seems to depend heavily on commercial bank’s lending to fund its operations, as the decline in lending to these sectors has hindered their performance.  Total bank lending to construction and real estate sector declined by 11 percent from N4.81 trillion in 2015 to N4.2 trillion in 2017, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).  “The economy was in recession from second Quarter 2016 and so, lending to most sectors declined. Also, Banks saw other sectors viable enough to give credit because they were more certain to get their return from those sectors in order to prevent bad debt which is not good for their books,” an analyst who asked to be quoted on the condition of anonymity told Business Day by phone.  Bank lending to construction and real estate sectors in Nigeria have remained dismal when compared to the likes of South Africa the continent’s most-industrialized economy.  With a population of about 55 million, mortgages in South Africa account for almost 30 percent of total credit, the largest component of banks’ assets, which amounted to about 5.14 trillion Rand ($387 billion) at the end of January, according to central bank data.  The country’s GDP slowed in the first quarter of 2018 to 1.95 percent from 2.11 percent in the previous quarter (Q4).
Another analyst however pointed out the importance of bank lending to both construction and real estate sectors;
“These two sectors of the economy are the kind of sectors that are in steady need of liquidity and long term capital, when not made available to them, they will continue to be in the position they are now,” the analyst said.  He concluded by saying the economy needs to also grow some more in order for sectors like the two under review to feel the impact.  “However, the economy has to expand some more, as this will rub off on the purchasing power of the citizens and as such there will be the demand for the products from these two sectors,” the analyst added.  According to the National Bureau of Statistics, real growth rate of the construction sector in the first quarter of 2018 was -1.54 percent (year on year), 1.68 percent points lower than the rate recorded the previous year.  Relative to the preceding quarter, there was a decline of 5.67 percent points. Quarter on quarter, the sector grew by 0.25 percent in real terms.  Its contribution to total real GDP was 4.04 percent in Q1 2018, lower than its contribution of 4.18 percent the previous year but higher than in the preceding quarter where it contributed 3.49 percent.  In the same vein, real estate sector real GDP growth recorded in the sector in Q1 2018 stood at -9.40 percent. Quarter-on-quarter, the sector grew by -30.57 percent in the Q1 2018.  It contributed 5.63 percent to real GDP in Q1 2018, lower than the 6.34percent it recorded in the corresponding quarter of 2017 and lower than the 7.03 percent in the preceding quarter.  Professionals ascribed this to the constraints placed on the accessibility of foreign exchange that affected the construction industry, which is profoundly import based, and the unbalanced economic climate, which has affected the general inclination to invest in the country’s real estate sector.  “The government has a larger role to play in the aspect of policy. If the government is able to develop and implement policies that are favorable to these sectors, definitely, they will see a boom in it. The prevalence of a lot of taxes and additional charges that are being put on construction companies and real estate developers is not helping and it frustrates the entire process of being able to initiate and complete a project,” Hakeem Sadiq, Founder of Zama, a Real Estate investment advisory firm said in a phone response.  Meanwhile, the federal government of Nigeria has disclosed plans to intervene in the real estate sector (specifically in the mortgage industry) with a N100 billion fund which will last for a period of five years. These developments are seen as catalysts that will make the sector expand further away from its current state, considering the various initiatives will make funds available for the sector, as noted by industry experts.