With the transformation of everything through technology, it has become inherent that Nigeria and Africa’s manufacturing and construction industry can be scaled to match that in first world countries with the use of digital technologies. As a result, Autodesk Inc., a leader in 3D design, engineering and entertainment software made a call to Nigerian architects, builders, engineers and manufacturers to disrupt the industry by making use of technology. During a forum themed: “The future of making things”, held in Lagos recently, the company highlighted how the disruptive power of digital technologies can enable a more profitable, resilient and agile construction industry and explained that the construction industry is a new frontier for innovation. The event also brought to the fore issues plaguing the construction industry such as rising project complexity, globalisation of construction, skills shortage, and access to capital as well as how cloud-enabled technologies present an opportunity for disruption in the way we design, build and operate buildings and infrastructure. Simon Bromfield, country manager, Autodesk Africa, stated that advanced technology in construction may seem like an oxymoron, but the industry is a new frontier for innovation. “Contractors are pressured on many sides, operating in a market driven by money and risk. Securing a profitable place in tomorrow’s market will be linked to a contractor’s ability to innovate. We urgently need to focus on the future- the future of making things with technology. When you see how this connectivity influences every facet of a construction site- improving the efficiency, safety, and cost- it is not even a question of whether the industry will move in this direction, only how quickly,” Bromfield said. Chike Chamberlain Ibeanu, managing partner, ZDesign & Development Consulting Ltd., said “the future is about collaborating in ways that previously weren’t possible. It is about having access to knowledge throughout the entire building information modeling (BIM) process, both through desktop products as well as through the cloud. Digitising the construction process and connecting teams with a common data environment improves collaboration and decision making. BIM provides a solid foundation, and enables greater efficiency and productivity. Any construction company looking to drive business margins, resilience and growth must innovate”. Ibeanu, an architect, went further to share success stories attained from the utilisation of Building Information Modelling (BIM). The event further explored the relevance of augmented and virtual reality, generative design, AI/Machine learning, smart cities, factory of the future, and climate change solutions, in the future of construction and infrastructure. Autodesk desires to help people digitise the construction process and project management, building a unified construction data platform to provide accurate information at the point of decision-making and drive better decisions and more profitable project outcomes.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 