When the then opposition All Progressives Party (APC) was desperately looking for the votes of Nigerians to win the 2015 general election, it went to town with all manner of promises, many of which remains unfulfilled till date, three years after coming to power. One of the most glaring is Apapa.
In Apapa, the party saw the infrastructural decay, the port congestion and the siege on the port city by rampaging trailers and tankers as a campaign tool and capitalized on it, assuring the business community and residents that an APC government would put an end to their woes. The promise was to reverse the decay and bring sanity back to Apapa within six months, something the PDP government could not do in four years. For the APC returning sanity to Apapa was not “rocket science” after all.
Three years after, despite several stakeholder-meetings chaired by representatives of the federal government and several failed attempts, Apapa has remained a mess, and has actually deteriorated from the position APC met it three years ago. The APC government has shown an exceptional level of cluelessness on how to go about fixing the chaos in Apapa.
Increasingly, Apapa is degenerating into a wasteland where residents are groaning, businesses are dying, the environment is degrading and suffocating, properties are decaying and losing value in hundreds of millions of naira, but the government is smiling to the bank with billions, sometimes trillions, of naira revenue from the ports—the nectar that draws the bees.
To think that both the Lagos State and the federal governments are products of the same party makes it even more difficult to understand the lack of capacity to resolve the Apapa debacle. Before now, part of the excuse for lack of interest in Apapa by the Lagos State government was that it belonged to the federal government, which was then controlled by PDP.
Today, the story is different. As Lagos governor, Babatunde Fashola was pained by the situation in Apapa and demonstrated this with his frequent interventions that helped to check the activities of the mindless truck owners and their agents. Expectation was high when the same Fashola emerged Minister of Power, Works and Housing in Abuja, the Nigerian Capital, Apapa would be his first priority. Sadly, political inertia has been the case.
The Buhari government inherited a Trailer Park under construction along the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway which was over 80 percent completed. The park, when completed is to help take away about 500 trucks from the expressway, which would have significantly reduced the chaos.
Three years of APC government, the park is “still under construction” and the contractor is one day on, and one month off the site.
The palliative work on the expressway for which billions have already been expended has become a lame-duck project and the entire stretch of that expressway from Sunrise through Coconut Bus Stop to Tin Can Second Gate/Liverpool Bridge has not only collapsed but also become a death trap with trailers and tankers falling on one another on regular basis.
But for the intervention by the trio of Dangote Group, Flour Mills of Nigeria, and Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) which have undertaken the reconstruction of the 2km Ijora-Apapa-Wharf Road at an estimated cost of N4.3 billion, the second major route to the port would have collapsed completely by now. Apapa represents a dysfunctional system run by a government that is becoming out of touch with a key source of its revenue. Apart from oil, which is the highest source of revenue for the country, maybe, no other sector of the economy gives the federal government more revenue than the sea ports. And the busiest sea ports in the country today are the ones in Apapa, which generate revenues that run into billions of naira on daily basis
The Federal Government has very strong presence at the two ports with its revenue collecting agencies which collect money for it in form of import duties and levies by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS); royalties, rents and dues collected by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA); dues and levies collected by the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); certification levies collected by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), among others.
Report has it that, in 2016, NCS alone generated N898 billion as revenue for the federal government and this was even less than the N904 billion collected in 2015. The reduction, according to a close source at the NCS, was because of the difficulty in accessing foreign exchange and removal of the 41 items which forced down the level of activities within the ports. In spite of the recession that ravaged the economy for 15 months, unconfirmed report has it that NCS revenue for 2017 was over N1trillion.
It is yet to be seen what stops the APC government from deconstructing the rock science inhibiting them from making Apapa a true port city by ploughing back part of the revenue it generates to take care of its decaying infrastructure, especially the port access roads, establish an efficient port operation system, and build a rail system dedicated to the ports.
As already mentioned, the Ijora-Apapa-Wharf Road is being rehabilitated at the cost of N4.3 billion. The projected cost of rehabilitating the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, at a time, was N100 billion. All things being equal, it means the two major routes require just N104.3 billion to make them motorable. Completing the Trailer Park may not take more than N5 billion, and that is being too liberal with estimates.
With commitment, these projects could be done within a year with revenue from one agency of government at the ports. Therefore, fixing Apapa should not be the rocket science for any government, more so, for a government that seeks to diversify its economy away from oil.  CHUKA UROKO 