Ghana’s ability to creatively tweak its regulation to allow telecommunication companies double as dedicated mobile money providers is one that Nigeria could borrow a leaf from to attract some 40 million adults into the financial fold.  Accra’s change of tack means non-bank entities can be licensed as financial services providers and are supervised by the Bank of Ghana in an arrangement that once shut them out of the mobile money market and gave exclusive right to commercial banks to play in that space.  In the new arrangement, Ghana’s mobile money operators from MTN to Airtel and Tigo are required to set up subsidiaries that would engage in the business of mobile money, independent of their core operations.  That decision resulted in a 73 percent increase in registered mobile money customers in just one year, according to World bank data, and has helped lift financial inclusion rates in Ghana to 58 percent in 2017 from 41 percent in 2014.  “From our interviews with Bank of Ghana staff, there was much resistance by commercial banks to the development of mobile money banking by Telcos but the regulator overcame that through a form of legal creativity,” said Obadiah Mailafia, a former deputy governor of the Nigerian central bank who recently did a survey on financial inclusion in Ghana.  “The BOG allowed the Telcos to float independent companies in which they were major shareholders. The companies became legal entities independent of the Telcos, able to do essentially banking business while not being commercial banks in the full sense of the word,” Mailafia added.  By 2016, there were six main digital financial services providers across Ghana- MTN, Tigo, Airtel, Vodafone, Fidelity bank and e-Zwich.  MTN, Tigo, Airtel and Vodafone were all mobile network operators offering mobile money services throughout Ghana. In addition to these DFS-oriented financial services providers, there are more than 27 commercial banks, some 60 non-bank financial institutions, 138 rural and community banks, 503 licensed MFIs and hundreds of licensed individual susu collectors that have become active across the country.  “The Ghanaian model has worked very well and is a model that Nigeria should replicate. NCC should sit with the CBN and get the Telcos to set up independent companies that are not necessarily Telcos but can play in the digital space,” Mailafia said.  “I hear they are thinking in that direction, because many companies want to come in with billions worth of investment but are restricted by the framework,” the former CBN deputy governor said.  Nigeria does have a mobile money market, but one that is exclusively bank-led, as opposed to the model in Ghana as well as in Kenya and Uganda.  That has meant the Nigerian mobile money market is not growing at the same pace as its East African neighbors and Ghana.  The percentage of Nigerians with access to financial services reduced to 40% in 2017, down from 44% in 2014.  That compares poorly to the inclusion rates in other African countries; 84% in Kenya, 78% in Uganda and 58% in Ghana.  “It is safe to say that Nigeria is playing catch-up when it comes to achieving inclusion and must look to learn from success stories like Ghana and Kenya if we are to achieve our goal of 80% inclusion by 2020,” said Gbenga Adebayo, Chairman of the Association of Licensed Telecom Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) centered on Financial Inclusion.  Another influential decision taken by the Bank of Ghana in the process of tweaking its regulatory environment to leverage mobile money, “was the decision to allow interest to be accrued on mobile money deposits,” Adebayo said. Mobile banking is so popular in Accra that the value of deposits and withdrawals by Ghanaians using mobile phones for banking almost doubled in 2017, according data published by the central bank. The value of mobile transactions rose to 155.8 billion cedis ($34.6 billion) last year from 78.5 billion cedis in 2016, according to the Bank of Ghana said. The volume of deposits and withdrawals rose another 78 percent to about 982 million. The growth in the use of phones for banking in Ghana comes as mobile money continues to expand across sub-Saharan Africa, but one that looks to be eluding the region’s largest economy, Nigeria. The central bank said at a BusinessDay conference in 2016 that a favorable model for banks and the Telcos to operate as mobile money providers is in the works, but nothing has happened yet. Since the emergence of mobile money, financial systems regulation has been a keenly discussed theme due to the critical role it plays in the economy in general.  Mobile money usually struggles in markets where mobile network operators are prohibited from participating.  According to GSMA, from a regulatory perspective, one basic requirement for mobile money to succeed is to create an open and level playing field that includes non-bank mobile money providers such as mobile network operators (MNOs).  Some argue that Nigeria’s resistance to allowing the telcos play a more active role in the mobile money space must give way to move the needle on financial inclusion.  “If we analyse the number of bank branches in Nigeria using the World Bank’s financial access survey, we see a high of 6.5 branches per 100,000 adults in 2010, falling to under 5.5 branches per 100,000 adults in 2016. It is clear that traditional banking is not the answer to the financial inclusion conundrum, a fact now acknowledged by the banks themselves,” said Adebayo.  “The commonly accepted solution to financial services for the poorest people, in the remotest locations, is to find service providers who already serve the bottom of the pyramid, who already have geographic proximity and to allow them to leverage this access to provide financial services. This is what has worked in Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and Ghana.” 