The coming on board of the multi-fund structure in the amended investment guidelines for the pension industry in Nigeria,as released by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) has been described as a response to the micro and macro economic developments in the country. According to expert, multi-fund was a response by the pension sector to the social and economic needs of Nigeria, an emerging economy looking for wealth creation for individuals and empowerment for the larger economy. Multi-Fund Structure, which brings flexibility in the investment and risk appetite of contributors and retirees based on their age and preference, under the Contributory Pension Scheme(CPS) became effective 1st July 2018. Glory Etaduovie, managing director/CEO, IEI-Anchor Pensions Limited said the Pension Fund Administrators(PFAs) have taken their time to study and understand the dynamics of the amended guideline, so that they could provide the right knowledge and awareness. He said this is a new phase in the nation’s pension industry because it seeks to address a lot of the burning issues and questions being thrown to the operator’s time without number, on what they are doing with the funds in their hand. Etaduovie said the multi-fund gives the government and investors in the economy the opportunity and the space to plan for long term funding for infrastructure development. He said the structure offers opportunity for long term funds that can be utilized for investment in infrastructure. “Fund 1 and fund 11 in the multi-fund structure belongs to contributors who have longer time to retire, so the funds in this space could be utilized for infrastructure funding by government and investors, if the necessary models can be put in place, he said. For pension fund administrators, Etaoduovie said the new investment guidelines makes funds available to them to grow their business, expand operations, increase liquidity and value creation for their shareholders. “The fund offers us opportunity to earn returns on investment, because with segmentation, we now have enough liquidity to create more value for our contributors, he said. “It enables us create employment for more Nigerians, people retain their jobs and welfare of families are improved”. For the capital market, Etaduovie stated that multi-fund will create stability in the market, as a lot of funds will come from the PFAs, which will absorb the market from mobile foreign funds. “We have seen in the past where the prices of stocks crashed because foreign equity investors pulled out their funds. Multi-fund will help to bring stability in the market against this kind of development, he said. The new investment structure which commenced on 1st July 2018 targetsto transform the country’s pension industry and bring enhanced returns to contributors and retirees based on their risk appetite. “Fund I is targeted at people of 49 years and below who want higher returns, and are willing to take higher risks. Membership into this fund is strictly based on request. Fund 2 is aimed at people who are aged 49 years and below and still working but are satisfied with moderate returns and levels of risks. Fund 3 targets people 50 years and above but still working and have very low risk appetite. While Fund 4 are retirees who have the lowest risk profile of all categories.” Effective from the date of implementation of the multi-fund structure, the PFAs shall allocate contributors to various fund types according to the following criteria: membership of Fund I shall strictly be by formal request by a contributor; active contributors who are 49 years and below as at their last birthdays shall be assigned to Fund II; active contributors who are 50 years and above as at their last birthdays shall be assigned to Fund III and Fund IV shall strictly be for RSA retirees only, analysts stated. Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs), mangers of the burgeoning country’s pension are positive that new scheme would carter for individual investment preferences.