A short film, Sweet Revenge, directed by a Canadian/Nigeria film director, Pascal Atuma has made the 10 final shortlisted films for the Just for Laugh Festival in North America. The final winner is expected to emerge through an online popularity vote for the 10 shortlisted films.  The film competition is aimed at selecting the funniest short comedy in the USA/Canada based on popular voting. The competition is organised by Laugh Out Loud, the comedy brand and multi-platform network created by Kevin Hart and global content leader Lionsgate . The 10 films that made the final shortlist, in alphabetic order, are: Behind Closed Doors — Bianca Armbruster (Director); Curious Georgina — Feral Ozel (Director);  Eat My Shorts Film Submission — Eduard Witzke (Director); Fowl Play — Rachel Cairns and Brendan Jeffers (Directors);  Lyfe Crushers — Trevor Williams (Director); Sweet Revenge — Pascal Atuma (Director);  The Application — Brenda Saucedo (Director);  The Call — Eric Toth (Director); The Prologue — Maxwell Michael Towson (Director); Worry Warts — Laura Rudnicki and Lexy Paul (Director). From the voting of the above shortlisted, the top five most popular comedy films selected by fans would be screened at the Just For Laughs Festival on July 26, 2018 at the Phi Centre, Montreal. The online voting by fans, which began last Saturday, July 14, 9 am, will end on Tuesday, July 17. Fans can stream Sweet Revenge on Kevin Hart’s Laugh Out Loud’s YouTube page from Saturday, July 14 to Tuesday, July 17. They can also vote by liking the video. The winning film will be announced   at the screening with the winner(s) receiving exclusive distribution of their short film, as well as, a first look deal with Laugh Out Loud & LionsGate. Just For Laughs Comedy is a unique, annual global gathering of the biggest players in the comedy industry. The event takes place during the peak industry/media/performer dates of the Just For Laughs Festival. Founded in 1983, the Just For Laughs Group concentrates on three major focal points: festivals (in Montreal, Toronto, Vancouver and Sydney); television production and stand-up specials. Sweet Revenge is executive produced by Warren Beatty of AAB Talent & Management, Toronto, Canada and produced by Ola George & Pascal Atuma for Diamond Pictures Inc, Toronto, Canada. Pascal Atuma wrote and directed the film. The cast include; Naomi Sundiata Nelson Morris, Lou Daniels, Bebe Obi- Okoye, Wendy German and Razie Brown- Stone.