I’ve been following Netflix since 2005, when I first visited its headquarters in Silicon Valley and interviewed Reed Hastings, its founder and CEO. I don’t think I’ve learned more about strategy, technology and culture from any other company I’ve studied. Here are three lessons that apply to every company: 1. BIG DATA IS POWERFUL, BUT BIG DATA PLUS BIG IDEAS IS TRANSFORMATIONAL. Netflix is a technology juggernaut whose analytics, algorithms and digital-streaming innovations have changed how customers watch movies and TV shows. But this technology has always been in service of a unique point of view — building a platform that shapes what customers watch, not just how they watch. Here’s how Reed Hastings explained it in 2005, when the company had just 3.5 million subscribers. “It’s possible to totally misunderstand Netflix,” he told me. “The real problem we’re trying to solve is, How do you transform selection so that consumers can find a steady stream of [entertainment] they love? We give everyone a platform to broaden their tastes.” 2. IF YOU AIM TO DISRUPT AN INDUSTRY, YOU MUST BE WILLING TO DISRUPT YOURSELF. Netflix began, of course, with a pretty simple innovation — crushing Blockbuster by shipping DVDs by mail and abolishing late fees. It then transitioned from mailing content to streaming movies and TV shows digitally. Today, Netflix is most noteworthy as a creator of content; it will spend a staggering $12 billion this year alone on programming. At every step, Netflix’s dramatic strategic moves invited external skepticism and required deep internal rethinking of what had worked before. The key lesson: For companies and leaders alike, you can’t let what you know, all your past success, limit what you can imagine going forward. 3. STRATEGY IS CULTURE, CULTURE IS STRATEGY. When it comes to who it hires and what it promises them, how it makes decisions and shares information, even what it does about vacations, Netflix has invented (and reinvented) a range of practices that are designed explicitly to connect what the company aims to achieve in the marketplace to how it organizes the workplace. Last year, the company updated its manifesto on Netflix Culture, a detailed statement of its principles, policies and practices with respect to the human factor in business. What’s unusual about the manifesto is how sharp the language  is; there is no hint of HR boilerplate. As more and more of us turn to Netflix for entertainment, the company bears watching as a source of insights about the future of business and work. 