Persons Living With Disability (PLWD) in Rivers State have been commended for their dedication in mobilizing support for the re-election of Governor Nyesom Wike in 2019. The commendation was made by the Special Adviser on Political Matters and Strategy, Emeh Glory Emeh, while receiving the chairman of Joint National Association of Persons Living With Disability, Kie Obomanu, who called in his office in Port Harcourt on Monday. Emeh said: “We are happy that, in spite of your physical challenges, you are still mentally alert to appreciate the outstanding performance of Governor Wike of Rivers State for the short period of three years in office. “It is obvious that Wike has worked sufficiently hard to the satisfaction of the people of Rivers State, such that even supposed political enemies are now falling over one another, looking for space in Wike’s political household. “It is interesting to say that even persons who were not part of the making of Governor Wike’s government are now convinced beyond reasonable doubt that Wike was prepared and ready for governance at the time he came, and as far as I am concerned, he came at a time the state was in dire need of effective leadership “I am yet to be convinced, what factor or yardstick anybody in this state will use to measure the performance of a governor that has been rated as the Best Performing in the country by even the Fourth Estate of the Realm, the most critical segment of the society. “As a state and as a people, we cannot but thank God that He bestowed on us the leader with such a tremendous capacity and intelligence, to put our state in the front burner of national discourse and economic frontiers. Rivers State has become, not only investors haven, but a tourist destination”, the political strategist summed. Earlier, Obomanu, had told Emeh, that he was in his office to appreciate the work he is doing for the governor and for the state in the area of sensitization, advocacy and enlightenment, preparatory to the official declaration of Governor Nyesom Wike for a second term in office. Obomanu used the opportunity of the visit to also intimate the special adviser on some of the activities of his organization in furtherance of the governor’s re-election. “We have come to see you, Sir, and also let you know some of the things we are doing to support your good work. We are one of the beneficiaries of the good policies and programmes of Governor Wike. We owe it as a duty to do whatever is in our capacity to continue to do to support him. “One of our challenges is the waiting period of our members during elections. We request His Excellency to prevail on the Independent National Electoral Commission to oblige us opportunity to vote early enough on election day, to reduce for our members, the stress of waiting and standing for a long time”, he further explained. It would be recalled that the visit by the Persons Living With Disability on the Special Adviser on Political Matters and Strategy, Emeh Glory Emeh on Monday, is the latest among numerous groups that have been calling to demonstrate their support for the administration of Governor Nyesom Wike in Rivers State, and his re-election in 2019. 