Businessday, West Africa’s leading provider of business intelligence and information, is organizing a CEO Apprentice Entrepreneurship boot camp for teenagers scheduled for the 20th – 25th August 2018. The Businessday CEO Apprentice boot camp focuses on equipping teenagers; ages 13-19 with the skills required to set up a business. The program will feature the use of the latest technology in training, including the use of a workbook, which becomes a functional business plan. It  will also feature training segments that will equip the  young entrepreneurs with best practices on  how to come up with  business ideas, how to structure their companies, how to price and test products.During this boot camp teenagers will also learn  how to develop  business models,that will include effective strategies on the best ways to market and advertise their brands. The teenagers will have special sessions on practices that revolve around Coding and Robotics. This is the ultimate boot camp for Nigeria’s future leaders. To register, log on to www.theceoapprenticeafrica.com.ng or call 08091607399 Interested teenagers should apply using the following steps: STEP 1: Check to make sure you meet the criteria to be a participant. STEP 2: Follow BusinessDay social media handles across social media platforms,on Facebook, at  Facebook.com/businessdayonline Instagram, at Instagram.com/businessdayng Twitter, at Twitter.com/businessdayng STEP 3: Create a 60 secs video to be posted on Instagram telling us about yourself, why we should pick you and your favorite CEO. Use the hashtag #BDceoapprentice2018, the video with the most number of engagements would be guaranteed a slot. STEP 4: Write an essay not more than 200 words about your business plan and how it can benefit the environment around. STEP 5: Visit https://businessdayceoapprentice.typeform.com/to/LFcJGR to fill in your application For more information,click here https://www.eventbrite.com/e/businessday-ceo-apprentice-2018-tickets-48366246746. 