One again, the Nigerian economy is bleeding following the return and persistence of a gripping siege by trailers and tankers on Lagos, the country’s commercial nerve centre, shutting down economic activities in the sprawling city and inflicting pain on its residents. The seeming collapse of the ‘vacate the bridge order’ given by the Nigerian Navy in collaboration with the Lagos State government and other relevant stakeholders has seen over 10,000 trailers and tankers take over all routes to the Apapa and the Tin Can Island ports, leaving little or no space for other road users.
The lock-down of Oshodi-Mile 2 Expressway and the Apapa environs has worsened as the gridlock continues towards Oshodi.
Only yesterday, it was Apapa and its environs that were under siege with trailers and tankers taking over available spaces, suffocating the residents and despoiling their environment. Today, from Mile 2, trailers have lined up towards Oshodi on the expressway, and also towards Festac Town First Gate on Lagos-Badagry Expressway. The ripple effects of this siege are on everybody and everywhere.
However, Lagos State government has set up a joint operation involving security agencies and stakeholders in the maritime sector to remove all containerised trucks and tankers parked along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway commencing from Friday (today).
This is not the first or second time the state will be constituting a task force to address the menace of tankers and articulated trucks in Apapa and other parts of the state. Though it is hoped that there will be impact, it remains to be seen how effective and workable the latest task force will be.
Tagged ‘Operation Restore Sanity On Lagos Roads,’ the exercise will be carried out from early hours of today to Monday by 1,000 policemen, 500 officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), 100 officers of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), 120 officers of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), and 250 personnel of the Nigerian military including army, air force and the navy.
The task force has become necessary because access to Apapa has become increasingly difficulty and this is the country’s premier port city whose economy is estimated at N40 billion a day.
“To allow this kind of situation to be impacting on that economy means a lot of money is being lost on daily basis not only by the businesses, but also by the country”, Paul Gbadedo, group managing director, Flour Mills of Nigeria, stated.
Gbadedo noted that over 75 percent of import and export businesses in Nigeria pass through Apapa and, so, both the government and businesses cannot afford to close their eyes on the scale of deterioration of the road infrastructure without doing something.
Apart from providing the equipment to be used for the operation, the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) will also deploy 20 officials, while the relevant unions within the maritime sector such as Amalgamation of Container Truck Owners Association, Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), National Association of Transport Operators (NATO), Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), among others will provide hundreds of their members to serve as Task Force to work with security agencies.
Imohimi Edgal, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) who addressed the press after an emergency meeting on the chaos in Apapa axis, said the decision to set up the operation became imperative owing to the need to restore sanity and prevent complete breakdown of law and order.
He said all stakeholders unanimously agreed that the operation should commence with immediate effect, while the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and other relevant agencies work to fashion out permanent solution to the issues within the Ports which gave rise to the gridlock.
According to Edgal, “Everybody is aware of the madness going on along the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway that has been completely blocked by trailers and tankers. The same problem we have on our bridges in Western Avenue, Iganmu and Apapa axis. “However, it would be irresponsible of us to continue to watch and allow Lagosians go through these period of untold hardship without coming up with strong palliative and security measures and strong joint effort to at least ease the traffic problem and allow for free flow of traffic, while agencies that are responsible for these problems sit together like they are doing currently and fashion out permanent solutions to the problems. “We have held series of meetings between yesterday and today and we have come up immediately with a resolve to immediately start ‘Operation Restore Sanity On Lagos Roads’. This operation which kicks off by early hours of Friday is intended to move trucks and containers from our roads, highways and bridges to designated locations. “Thereafter, inventory will be made. The shipping companies themselves will be called to send their representatives to take inventory of these containers and at least have records that the containers have been taken to the designated locations so that they can continue their activities from there,” Edgal said.  CHUKA UROKO & JOSHUA BASSEY