 The 2012 NFIS draft was also limited by a lack of prioritisation of actions and the KPIs as well as obsolete set of solutions which were suboptimal in achieving the desired targets. These limitations informed a refreshed NFIS which were drafted to be more ‘future-proof’ in order to avoid it from becoming obsolete, according to the CBN. “The constraints pointed out as to why they are not being able to meet the set target still exist, they existed 10 years ago, they also existed 20 year ago, so if you are saying only when you have overcome those challenges that is when you will obtain full financial inclusion and literacy, I do not think so,  as financial inclusion means making payments and having access to financial services and products and not necessarily with a bank account,” Bismarck Rewane, MD of Financial Derivatives  explained. Meanwhile, CBN recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on digital payment systems while collaborating with Nigeria Inter-Bank Settlement System (NIBSS) to roll out 500,000 shared-agent network to offer basic financial services to the excluded, but all these have failed to make the 80 percent inclusion target feasible. The apex bank has therefore outlined new strategies that will help drive financial inclusion to a position like its African peers. The new strategies adopted were based on two major principles. Firstly, regulations should be focused on the activity and not the actor; defining the eligibility to provide the financial service without closing off the sector from future innovation. Secondly, actors are to focus more on the activities they possess ‘comparative advantage’ in to achieve the greatest impact. Given the complexity and volume of changes that need to happen, individual actors are to focus more on the activities that best suit their capacity whilst maintaining an inclusive lens as much as possible. Rewane of Financial Derivatives said if Nigeria wants to do anything, the country will do it irrespective, and as such including more Nigerians into the financial cycle can be done, and whatever has been done so far can also be accelerated by bringing more people into the financial inclusion cycle. “Just look at the number of telephone lines compared to the number of bank accounts compared to the number of BVN and you will see that disparity,” he added. The NFIS redraft identified 5 crucial priorities to increasing financial inclusion in the country, with emphasis on; creating a conducive environment for the expansion of DFS, enabling the rapid growth of agent networks with nationwide reach, reducing KYC hurdles to opening and operating a bank account, creating an environment conducive to serve the most excluded and driving adoption of cashless payment channels, particularly in government-to-person and person-to-government payments. The apex bank said in the refreshed NFIS, priorities have been defined based on a new approach that is deliberately more ‘future-proof’ in its focus on first principles, instead of specific approaches that have the potential to become obsolete. “The refreshed strategy is based on a first-principles approach. It recognises the various core mandates that need to be managed to develop a solid, stable yet inclusive financial system and identifies the principles that need to be in place to manage and govern financial services,” it added. On the best strategy to help include more Nigerians into the financial cycle and the solution to solving the exclusion problem in Nigeria Rewane concluded by saying  “more people should be brought into the financial inclusion cycle as this can be done by not necessarily through bank account.”