Despite having the most diversified audience, user engagement on Facebook fall short by ten times that of its sister company Instagram, according to Terragon’s latest report. The Digital Indicators for Nigeria report released on Thursday, 12 July, also found that Instagram outpaces Twitter with 84 percent user engagement. Facebook retains the most active user spot with 22 million, YouTube follows with over 7 million, Twitter is third with 6 million while Instagram boast of 5.7 million active users. Instagram which debuted in 2010 has become every social marketer’s number one strategy due to its growing popularity among young people that make up the majority of its audience. With one billion users recorded in June, the number of advertisers on Instagram has more than doubled to over a million. User attraction to Instagram is a result of factors that include its exclusive mobile functionality. Users can easily edit images they take on the move to post on the platform. Its few posting options are also major attractions, making it appear very simple to use. Instagram has done a fine job of attracting younger audiences, with the majority of its users under the age of 30, and has an energy that older social media brands have lost over the years. 69 percent of users on Instagram are between the ages of 18 and 34 compared to 42 percent for Facebook and 68 percent for YouTube according to data from Napoleancat.com. Instagram also has the most gender diverse audience of the four social media platforms studied by Terragon. Gender proportion on Instagram is 60 percent for male and 40 percent for female, whereas Facebook has 64 percent for male and 36 percent for female. Twitter has 68 percent for male and 32 percent for female, while YouTube has 69 percent for male and 31 percent for female. As part of strategies to capture more share in the growing mobile video audiences, Instagram in June 2018 launched “IGTV” a platform for watching long-form, vertical videos that can go on for 60 minutes.  The platform also unveiled video chat which allows users call up to four people using Direct Messaging. “With the Feed, Stories, Messaging, Live, IGTV and now Video Calling, Instagram is positioning itself as a one-stop hub for everyone to build strong, video based presence,” the Terragon report stated. The report also noted that 65 percent of internet users in Nigeria watch online videos while 52 percent look for videos related to a product or services before entering a store. 92 percent of the mobile video consumers share what they are watching with other people. 