The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has revised upward the growth outlook of Sub-Saharan Africa in 2019, on the back of a boost in the Nigerian economy. The growth in the region, IMF said in its World Economic Outlook Update released yesterday, is expected to increase 3.8 percent in 2019, representing a 0.1 percent when compared with a 3.7 percent prediction in April. “The upgraded forecast reflects improved prospects for Nigeria, as Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the country is expected to increase at 2.3 percent in 2019 on the back of an improved outlook for oil prices,” the US- global lender said, lifting its estimate from the 1.9 percent formerly projected in April. Nigeria’s economy is recovering from its worst contraction in 2016, which was caused by lower oil prices and output and shortages of foreign exchange to import raw materials. However, the economy managed to limp off the recession in the second quarter of 2017 after expanding 0.55 percent on the back of a rebound in oil prices, following an agreement reached by OPEC members in 2016 to shave some 1.2 mbpd off the market to nip a growing supply glut in the bud and relaxed hostilities in the Niger-Delta region. In addition, the non-oil sector recorded a positive growth for the second consecutive quarters, spurred by on-going recovery in the manufacturing sector due to improved foreign exchange (FX) Liquidity. IMF held its predictions for South Africa’s economy, saying it will expand 1.5 percent this year and 1.7 percent the next. “Despite the weaker-than-expected first-quarter out-turn in South Africa, the economy is expected to recover somewhat over the remainder of 2018 and into 2019 as confidence improvements associated with the new leadership are gradually reflected in strengthening private investment,” the fund said. South Africa, Africa’s most-industrialized economy, hasn’t grown at more than 2 percent a year since 2013. GDP shrank the most in almost a decade in the first quarter as former President Jacob Zuma handed over power to Cyril Ramaphosa. Zuma spent close to nine years in power, during which time the nation lost its investment-grade credit rating and policy uncertainty and unemployment increased. Nigeria and South Africa’s economies account for about half of the regions GDP IMF said it projects global growth to reach 3.9 percent growth in 2018 and 2019, in line with its global forecast for April. However, global expansion is becoming less even, and risks to the outlook are mounting. The US-global lender revised downward the growth projection for the euro area, japan, and the United Kingdom, reflecting negative surprises to activity in 2018. 