The governorship election in Ekiti State has come and gone, it also left some lessons for critical stakeholders in the Nigerian democratic project.  Despite the tension and threats that preceded the election, the exercise was generally peaceful. It would be recalled that the situation became worrisome when the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in the state, Abdulganiyu Raji, said it identified 299 flashpoints among polling units in the buildup to the election.  But observers have attributed the violence-free exercise to the deployment of over 50,000 policemen and civil defence operatives in addition to other security forces of all stripes to maintain law and order during the election.  However, less impressive was the use of security operatives who were not only alleged to have teargassed the governor, Ayo Fayose and dispersed PDP supporters from rally but also arrested, intimidated and placed some PDP chieftains under house arrest.  With less than seven months to the 2019 general elections, analysts say the use of security agents to hound perceived political enemies of the Muhammadu Buhari administration portends danger and will send a wrong signal to the international community.  Clement Nwankwo, Convener of Situation Room – a coalition of over 70 civil society organisations – expressed these fears at a dialogue session with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).  Even more worrisome in the Ekiti election was the increasing incidence of vote buying, a troubling flaw noticed during the last governorship elections in Ondo, Edo and Anambra states.  Just like the previous three gubernatorial elections, heavy vote buying characterised the Ekiti poll as major contenders engage in naked supremacy battle, using money to curry electorates’ favour for votes under the watchful eyes of security agents.  The two major political parties in Ekiti State, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) were the most visible in the vote buying exercise code named “Operation See and Buy.” While the PDP was said to have bribed each voter with N3,000 each, APC paid between N4,000 and N10,000.  A chieftain of Social Democratic Party (SDP) and former Minister of Education Tunde Adeniran, attributed his party’s defeat in the just concluded election to its inability to engage in votes buying like some other parties.  Adeniran submitted that the SDP candidate, Akin Ayegbusi, would have won the election if the two major political parties – APC and PDP – had not resorted to inducing voters.  His words: “If there was no ‘see and buy’, SDP would have won the election, because people were anxious to have an alternative to the two parties (APC and PDP). Ekiti people preferred the SDP.  “The people loved our manifesto and philosophy because they could connect with us, especially with the Abiola experience. We are the only party that is ideological in terms of philosophy, orientation and the policies we intend to pursue.  “We lost because we didn’t have the money to purchase votes like other parties, and the people have been pauperised, so they scavenge for what anyone brings. But we don ’t believe in such. We believe in people voting according to their conscience”.  Adeniran’s allegations were corroborated by a former Deputy Governor of Ekiti State, Abiodun Aluko, who was also the governorship candidate of the Accord Party (AP) in the July 14 election. According to him, the two major political parties engaged in a stiff competition to outdo each other in inducing voters with money.  Analysts have expressed concern that the electoral body is yet to find an antidote to votes buying despite assurances by the Commission that such incidences would not occur in the just concluded exercise.  Prior to last Saturday’s exercise, INEC National Commissioner supervising Ekiti State, Solomon Soyebi, had said the commission had put measures in place to checkmate votes buying that characterised previous off cycle elections.  Political pundits are worried that the partnership between the Commission and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to tackle the issue of open votes buying is yet to yield any fruitful result.  Early this year, Acting Chairman of the anti-graft agency, Ibrahim Magu, had paid a courtesy call on the electoral body when it’s Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu had expressed concern about the trend.  “We don’t want 2019 general elections to be determined by the amount of money people have or who run for elections into offices. Votes are never for sale. It is the right of Nigerians to vote whoever they want,” Yakubu had said.  Many believe that if the trend is not checked, the 2019 elections would be determined by the highest bidder, as voters may sell their votes to contenders. According to them, votes buying is not only a dent on accountability but also fuels corruption.  Speaking on the development, human rights activist and lawyer, Inebehe Effiong, said leaders who emerge though votes buying would not be accountable to the people.  To him, the Ekiti election has taken the nation backward. His words: “Election that is won and lost through vote buying is not and cannot be a credible election. Vote buying is a criminal offence and a specie of corrupt practices which is one of the grounds for invalidating an election under the Electoral Act.  “Both the ruling APC and the opposition PDP engaged in this brazen criminality in their desperate bid to capture power in Ekiti State.  Yes, power. That is all that matters to these two political monstrosities.  “Partisan commentators should stop portraying Ekiti election as a victory for democracy. This election has taken us backwards in our struggle to sanitize the electoral process in Nigeria. Voter inducement is a crime and democracy cannot develop through criminality. Real popularity cannot be bought.  “Leaders who assume positions through voter inducement cannot be held accountable. We have a very long way to go as a nation”.  Similarly, the Commission needs to do more to enhance the card reader ahead of next year’s general elections. The failure of the card reader to read the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) of PDP candidate, Olusola Eleka and his wife as well as Erelu Bisi, wife of APC candidate and governor-elect, Kayode Fayemi, are strong indications that the
Commission needs to do more to ensure that eligible voters are not disenfranchised on account of malfunctioning of card readers.  Observers have also commended the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) for shutting down the state government-owned Ekiti Broadcast Service (BSES) for breaching some provisions of the Broadcasting Code.  They argued that had Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, been allowed to continue to declare unauthorised results on the station in favour of Eleka, it would have incited the public and led to breakdown of law and order.  Political commentators have also stressed the need for politicians to respect the will of the people