Former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar has formerly declared his intention to run for the 2019 Presidential election under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) even as he castigated the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for Nigeria’s poor economy and increasing insecurity in the last three years. Addressing a mammoth crowd during a PDP rally in Yola, capital of Adamawa State on Saturday, monitored by BusinessDay, Atiku noted that his intention to seek the leadership of the country is to rescue the nation from the bondage of poverty and divisiveness of the APC and restore hope to traumatized Nigerian people. Atiku noted that the PDP has plans to bring back smiles on the faces of Nigerians once again, saying “What the PDP is going to do is to restore our economy, is to unify our country, is to ensure we have security of lives and property. I want to appeal to all of you, wherever you may be that it is time you now re-embrace the party that has given you unity, prosperity and security in this country.” He further lamented that in the last three years, the APC has destroyed Nigeria’s economy and plunged about 10 million people mostly youth into unemployment, adding that more people have died following the pervasive insecurity in the country than those killed in war-torn Iraq and Afghanistan, amidst the alleged divisive politics of the APC government. “The Government of APC has failed, it has failed to unite Nigerians. Today, we are more divided than at any other time in the history of this country. The APC has destroyed our economy. They took over an economic growth of 7% and brought it down to less than 2%. Today, we are witnessing the most insecure atmosphere in Nigeria ever since its existence. More people have died in Nigeria during the reign of the APC than people killed in Iraq or Afghanistan. “Today we have the highest unemployment in the history of this country. More than 10 million of our youth are unemployed,” Atiku bemoaned even as he beckoned on the people to give PDP the requisite support to unseat the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC federal government. The Wazirin Adamawa also promised to take back his home state, Adamawa from the grip of the APC and return it to the fold of the PDP. “It is time we take back our state. In 1998, I took this state, Adamawa to PDP, and today I have returned to reclaim what rightly belong to the PDP,” said. National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus said the PDP is the party of choice adding Atiku has a lot of support across the country and assured free and fair election during the PDP presidential primary. He also noted that in the coming weeks there will be political tsunami that will sweep the APC away from Nigeria’s political landscape stressing that APC cannot survive because their hands are stained with innocent blood. “I want to tell Nigerians that we are on a rescue mission to save Nigerians from the hands of this wicked government. You are aware that the APC has failed completely to provide security for our people; people are being killed across the states. They killed them in Zamfara, in Taraba, in Sokoto, in Adamawa in Borno, in Benue, in Plateau state and all over the country, there has been bloodbath. The leaders of APC are corrupt and they are in the valley of corruption, they cannot allocate the revenue to the states in the last two months. The government has collapsed, economy has collapsed, and security has collapsed. “We are on a rescue mission in 2019, we are not afraid, we are strong, we are coming like train and APC will be crushed in the name of God. We believe that God has finished with the APC,” he said. He pointed out that the PDP will provide employment for Nigerian youths and women saying “Our youth will be employed and women will be engaged. Our youths are not lazy, they are resourceful, they are energetic and they are innovative. The high point of the events was the acceptance of dozens of former members of the APC and others, who defected to the PDP during the rally.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja