Pharmamax Nigeria Limited, a pharmaceutical generic marketing giant in Nigeria, plans to invest in broad range of cardiovascular remedies before the end of the year to enhance patient’s accessibility to anti-hypertensive medicines. The pharmaceutical marketing giant also says it has concluded arrangements to partner faculty of pharmaceutical sciences to institute an annual Pharmamax Cardiovascular Academic Awards in select universities across the country. The company is spurred by encouragements it received from numerous physicians and drugstores across the country on account of efficacy of its Pharmamax brands of Amlodipine and Lisinopril therapies in restoring health and saving lives of patients across the country. ‘’The testimonies we are getting especially from physicians in major hospitals across the country on Pharmamax Amlodipine and Lisinopril is encouraging and provide insight into what we need to do next,’’ Morgan Nwanguma, Head Public Communication and New Media, said recently in Lagos. Dropping the hint shortly after receiving the prestigious Pharma Entreprenuer of the Year Award from the Board of Fellows of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, the KCH boss, said that with the acceptability of Calcium Channel Blockers and ACE inhibitors range  of anti-hypertensive molecules by patients in the country, Pharmamax is committed to invest in broad ranges in other to provide physicians with wider options in prescriptions to varied heart related conditions and also to ensure that the greatest majority of Nigerians in need of these essential medicines are covered. ‘’Pharmamax has unique understanding of the needs of physicians and patients and that is why we  focus on areas of high unmet needs and leverage our expertise to strive for solutions that dramatically improve people’s lives,’’ Ukah added. Building on a remarkable track record of achievement, the KCH boss expressed the willingness of Pharmamax to fulfil the letters of its mission statement which is anchored on increasing access to a unique range of high quality products for those who need them most. He also disclosed that Pharmamax provides access to a wide range of high-quality patient-centric essential drugs in nearly every therapeutic area numbering over 50 generics at affordable rates. Giving insight on the Pharmamax Annual Cardiovascular Award, the KCH helmsman said that his organisation is desirous of encouraging students in pharmaceutical sciences in Nigerian universities especially those who have interest in contributing to on-going research and discussions in cardiovascular related conditions to achieve resounding successes. He explained that the award which is planned to take effect from next year is designed to recognise outstanding pharmacy students in their final year that distinguished themselves in providing unique answers to test questions relating to cardiovascular health conditions. The overall best student, he further disclosed, would be rewarded with mouth-watering cash prize for outstanding performance. Similarly, the Dean, faculty of pharmaceutical sciences of the recipient university will also smile home with a cash reward for his distinguished contribution in moulding excellent mind. According to him no less than six outstanding students will be rewarded each year primarily to spur pharmacy students into paying more than ample interest in achieving high academic performance and excellence in the field of pharmacy. On his company’s relationship with regulators and stakeholders in the health sector, Ukah said that KCH group enjoys excellent working relationship with PCN, NAFDAC and the ministry of health because of its pursuit of excellence and compliance in all its operations. He however, applauded NAFDAC under the leadership of Prof. Moji Adeyeye for the determined effort to conquer the menace of counterfeit medicines in the country and also the commitment to re-position the regulatory agency for greater heights.