Imagine being able to take your family to the Murtala Muhammad Airport on weekends for shopping just the same way you will go to Ikeja Shopping mall on the weekend. That sounds unusual but that is the concept on which the Changi airport is run in Singapore. We visited the place yesterday and management told us how they have been able to grow the Changi airport into the sixth busiest in the world.  Speaking on the philosophy that drives how the airport is run, Jaisey Yip, Associate General Manager, Cargo and Logistics Development, Changi Airport Group said that vision is to make the airport a place where everyone can spend quality time and leave with ‘memorable’ experiences.  She says that the idea is to position the airport as not just an airport but as a ‘lifestyle’ hub.  The airport has been designed and built in a way that it is part of the tourist attraction that brings people to Singapore. Those who use the airport are not just those with plans to fly out of the country but people who are also looking for a great place to relax, looking for exciting things to see or just have a great shopping experience. This is why the airport has about 400 retail shops and 140 food outlets. There are also 24-hour movie theaters in two of the terminals and play grounds for kids. The airport also has themed gardens across its four terminals, art installations and transit hotels and lounges.  Because of these facilities, Singapore residents living close to the airport, actually come to the airport on weekends with their families to eat, shop and relax. Our Singapore guide a told us that the airport ensures that it provides a lot of fun activities over the weekend to attract residents to the airport. She also says that prices of items at the airport are also comparable to what you get in town, so that also makes it attractive for residents to use the airport as a shopping destination.  Passengers staying at the airport for more than five hours can get a free two-hour tour of Singapore for free. Passengers can also watch latest blockbuster movies in any of the 24-hour movie theatres at the airport for free, in case they have shorter waiting periods.  Not surprisingly, the Changi airport has become the leading airport in Asia Pacific handling 62 million passengers per annum. Passenger traffic has grown consistently since 2014. Yip disclosed that because the Changi airport has been positioned as a lifestyle hub, retail revenues and airlines revenues are now almost at par. And this significant retail revenue is now used to subsidise aero revenue to ensure that the airport remains competitive in the region and is able to attract more airlines to use Singapore as a base for their operations in the Asia Pacific.  Also, in line with Singapore’s overall strategy of always being one step ahead of its immediate neighbours, Changi airport is already planning a terminal 5, which will be called the Jewel Changi Airport. Scheduled to open in 2019, this new terminal has been planned to be ‘world class lifestyle destination.’ It is going to a mixed use complex with a glass and steel façade, filled with themed gardens, retail shops, food outlets and other modern amenities as usual.  Yip says the airport is also going to have the world’s largest indoor water fall and in the evenings, there will be lighting displays. It will also have the unique restaurants and shops and world class hotels that will accommodate those having overnight stay at the airport.  But it is not just the passenger end driving the Changi airport. The freight business is also huge. It is called the Changi Airfreight Centre (CAC) and Airport Logistics Park. Yip says that CAC is located on a 70 hectares’ land within a free trade zone near the Changi Airport. We were able to visit the perishable goods handling session of the CAC, called Coolport. According to Yip Changi Airport has been ranked as the 7 th busiest airport for international freight globally handling more than 2.21 million tonnes of cargo on an annual basis.  Yip says that the three key success factors that have made the Changi airport excel are; operational efficiency, connectivity to key cities around the world and of course, capabilities. Singapore is ranked as the number one airport in the Asia pacific in terms of logistics performance and number five globally. The indices used in these ranking including; customs, infrastructure, international shipments, logistics competence, tracking and tracing of cargo and finally timeliness. No need to say that Nigeria will rank very low on all the indices.  The airport was also ranked in the 2018, ‘Air Cargo Excellence Report’ as the ‘Best Global Airport for performance, value and facilities. Yip explains that the philosophy that guides Changi airports handling of cargo is that every cargo needs a personalised touch. The big picture is to ensure that Singapore becomes a trusted and reliable hub for cargo.  The cargo business has also been carefully structured to support the key sectors of the Singapore economy as well as the Asia Pacific economy. The main items handled by the freight business is linked to the fact that the country is located in a highly populated region. The key cargoes are pharmaceuticals, perishables, mainly food items and vegetables. The Asia Pacific region population will hit five billion in 2050 with the population rising by 900 million people, who will need to be fed. The cargo business is being positioned to be the logistics hub that will support this higher population. Singapore is therefore positioning to be a key exports and transshipment hub for this new demand that is emerging. This still comes back to a country’s always thinking ahead of the curve. Other areas that the freight business has been positioned to handle include; Aerospace and advanced manufacturing as well as e-commerce. Still thinking ahead, the Changi group has already finalized plans for a future air cargo hub that will increase its cargo handling capacity from three million to 5.4 million tonnes per annum. The new cargo airport will come with enhanced speed and efficiency, rely on smart use of technology and data as enablers, and is designed around the concept of sustainability and resilience. I found this discussion about airport interesting because of the current initiative by the federal government to establish a national airline. It is obvious that national airlines will only be sustainable if there is a bigger picture behind its establishment beyond national pride. What business ecosystem is the new national airline meant to support? How well is that ecosystem established to feed off from the national airline business? Is there an incentive for people to want to fly through Nigeria airports to other destinations? How much engagement has the federal government had with local and international logistics companies in the country to see what their needs are and if the national airline can be positioned to improve their competitiveness or support specific sectors of the economy? Which should have been priority, the airline or the airports to support passenger and cargo traffic seamlessly? The feeling you get as you talk to authorities and businesses in Singapore is that a lot of deep thinking goes into economic development. But as a top player in the Nigerian business community also told me here yesterday, Nigeria is not short of ‘deep’ thinking. He said that the biggest challenge is that there is a huge gap between the thinking, whether deep or not and implementation.