The claims by the National Economic Council ( NEC) that the $1 billion , (N305b ) they approved for procurement of security equipment to fight insecurity has not been spent has cast doubt on the whereabouts of the fund. Anambra State Governor, Willy Obiano, had while briefing state House correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Thursday claimed that the funds “ has not been expended yet” Following the deduction of the $1billion from the Excess Crude Account , the fund had reduced to $1,918,509,918.86, as Stabilization Fund Account now amo7nt to N18,882,864,216.56, while the Natural Resources fund stood at N133,715,427,387.37 But when reminded that President Muhammadu Buhari had approached the National Assembly to approve $496m already deployed to purchase Tucano jet, they expressed ignorance This question followed concerns expressed by stakeholders that despite the $1billion approval to check insecurity by the Governors at the NEC meeting, insecurity has not abated, as cases rampant killings abound across the country. Obiano, in his response said insecurity was not one of the issues deliberated at NEC meeting of Thursday “ With respect to the $1 billion to be spent on saving lives and property across the nation, i have been properly informed that the money has not be expended yet. According to him” There is a growing concern including at the council and elsewhere that issue of killing must stop. I believe that all the appropriate agencies are aware that concern is growing and I am confident that they listen to the pleas of people and do something more drastic than they have done so far. Following a presentation on flooding and erosion disasters across the nation, NEC approved a collaborative partnership between the federal government and the state governments with the presidential committee on flood relief rehabilitation to immediate intervention of flooding prevention and mitigation and preparedness in the country. Many reasons were adduced on why flood challenges persist across the country to include non-distilling areas, poor urban planning, mismanagement of the forest through burning. They called for Short time and sustainable way to distilling major tributaries, canals ahead of the flooding session. This is relatively inexpensive and executable within a very short period of time. The council also agreed to set up a federal monitoring unit to comprise officers of the collaborating entities, federal states and presidential committee on flood relief respond to be headed by a director, this is to identify locations of crucial actions on realistic cost estimates and implementing flood prevention, mitigation and preparedness programme. Council also approved a project cost sharing ratio of federal government 30 percent, states 30 percent, presidential committee on flood 40 percent on identified projects.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja