Insurance regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has introduced new capital requirements for underwriting companies in Nigeria.
The new capital requirement classified in three tier levels, which will commence 1st January 2019, is to compliment the industry risk based supervision framework started in 2009, targeted at making the insurance industry optmise its potential and contribute maximally to the Nigerian economy.
In the new Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital released by NAICOM in Lagos yesterday, companies will be classified based on their 2017 financial accounts. In this vein, Tier 3 companies are those that falls within existing paid up capitals of N2 billion for life business; N3 billion for non-life business and N5 billion for composite business.
Companies in this category will be limited to underwrite only risks in life business in the following areas – Individual Life, Health Insurance, Miscellaneous Insurances; while for non-life they will be limited to underwrite risks in these areas – Fire, Motor, General Accident, Engineering (only classes covered by compulsory insurance), Agriculture and Miscellaneous Insurances. Tier 2 companies are those whose paid up capital has increased by 50 percent above the existing minimum capital.
For life business, their paid up capital will be N3 billion and they are to underwrite all Tier 3 risks and Group Life Assurance (GLA); while for non-life, their paid –up capital base will be N4.5 billion and they will underwrite all Tier 3 risks, Engineering (All inclusive), Marine, Bonds Credit Guarantee and Suretyship Insurances.
Tier 1 companies are those whose paid up capital has increased by 200 percent, above the existing minimum requirement. Life companies in this category will have capital of N6 billion, and will underwrite all Tier 2 risks and Annuity. While for non-life business, the paid up capital will be N9 billion, and will underwrite all Tier 2 risks and Oil & Gas (oil related projects, exploration & production), and Aviation Insurances.
Composite companies in Tier3 will maintain N5 billion; Trier 2 N7.5 billion and Tier 1 will have N15 billion.
Transition guideline according to the Commission will be released 3rd August 2018; Issuance of notification letters (Tier assessment Advice to all Operators) on assessed Capital level will be given on 13th – 17th August, 2018; while submission of Board’s decision by Operators (on choice of Tier-Level) to NAICOM will be not later than 14th September 2018.
Sunday Thomas, deputy commissioner for Insurance, Technical who briefed the press after the Insurers Committee Meeting said what has happened today, is a major development in the history of insurance and the financial services industry in Nigeria because it will reposition the insurance industry to optimize its full potential and impact significantly on the Nigerian economy.
“Thomas said one of the challenges NAICOM as a regulator has had is being able to align the drive for penetration with operators living up to their bids.
He stated that “after the meeting of Insurers Committee Retreat held on 15th and 16th February, 2018 in Abeokuta the industry unanimously in consensus agreed to come up with a desirable recapitalization that will enable the industry achieve its potential.”
Thomas stated that the Commission has identified all the affected stakeholders including the board, management and their key officers as well as shareholders and will carry them along to ensure smooth implementation of the programme.
He however noted that the Commission has not compelled any insurance company to increase capital, but operate within their choice area where they have adequate capital.
He said reinsurance companies are not affected by this development, as theirs will be considered in the near future, but stated also that the new capital will stimulate appetite for new licensing to investors willing to operate in Tier 1.
Barenaka Thompson, director, Supervision at the National Insurance Commission who presented details of the capitalization said Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital” (TBMSC) structure is a complimentary measure to the ongoing implementation of the Risk-Based Supervision (RBS) programme
“The recapitalization scheme is aimed at developing and applying appropriate tools that consider the nature, scale and complexity of insurers, as well as non-core activities of insurance groups, to limit significant systemic risk and thereby achieve soundness of insurance companies and contribute to the achievement of stability of the financial system.”
He stated further that it will allow insurer’s to focus on their areas of strength; Improve claims settlement ; enhance local retention; encourage market discipline, prudence and appropriate pricing; encourage innovation and deepen market penetration; encourage voluntary mergers, and build investors’ confidence; and build a stronger and more vibrant insurance industry.  Modestus Anaesoronye 