Nigeria’s vice president Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday commissioned BUA Group’s 1.5 million metric tonnes  Kalambaina cement plant in Sokoto State, which gulped $350 million to build. The ultramodern plant is blessed with huge limestone deposits and is proximate to Niger Republic, which enhances its export potential. The cement plant started three years ago when BUA engaged Sinoma at the height of foreign exchange crisis and began production in March this year. Speaking at the commissioning  of the plant, Osinbajo said the cement factory is a demonstration that Nigeria has vast potential, which investors should explore. According to him, the National Infrastructure Master Plan recommends that Nigeria needs to spend $3 trillion to bridge the infrastructure gap as well as five percent of GDP annually. “Nigeria now produces over 40 million MT of cement, more cement than any other country in Africa. Nigeria’s huge market size, low per capita cement consumption of 125kg and estimated housing deficit of 17 million are key drivers,” Osinbajo said. He appealed to cement makers to cut prices while also considering producing more of concretes for road construction, stating that now is time for Africa’s most populous country to commence building roads with concretes. “We can revolutionalise road construction by simply deciding that we can build roads with concretes. I have no doubt that this will boost employment generation and boost economic growth,” he stated, adding that a road has been completed in Ogun with concretes, while the Apapa road is being rehabilitated with concretes. “We have built a 32 megawatts multi-fuel captive power plant and a coal mill. To put this in perspective, this new plant will be generating more power than is currently generated by the entire Sokoto State,” Abdul Samad Rabiu, chairman and CEO of BUA Group. According to Rabiu, the plant will run on  coal, heavy oils or a mixture of both, and the use of coal is expected to save over 70 percent of energy costs compared with 15 million litres of fuel oil per month or 40 tonnes or even 20 trucks of fuel that could have been used per day. He said at least 2,000 direct and 10,000 indirect jobs are required to get the plant running, adding that the $1 billion Obu Cement Complex in Okpella, Edo State, commissioned in August 2017, will be completed by end of this year. He said by the time the Okpella plant is completed by end of the year, BUA’s total production capacity will hit 8 million MT and would give 35 percent of the entire volumes produced in Nigeria. On his part, Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto State governor, said the state has eased access to land, given tax breaks and waivers to investors, with other incentives such as transfer of repatriation quotas and guaranteed security. Tambuwal said the state has created a good business environment for investors, stressing that the industrial feat being achieved by Sokoto was made possible by government collaboration with the private sector.