In the developed economies, intra-city commuting is not just convenient but fun. It is aided by well paved roads and, more importantly, deployment of smart technology like Intelligent Transport System (ITS) which offers commuters the luxury of planning their trips in a manner that time wastage is almost eliminated or reduced to the barest minimum.  Technology gives the commuter an insight into the operations of buses and trains plying different intra-city routes. It captures the arrival and departure of each bus or train at designated stations. Commuters are able to work within the scheduled time; get to the station and board without long hours of waiting and sweating.  Nigeria is known not only for lagging behind in basic public transportation infrastructure but also for sheer insensitivity to the essence of time in productivity.  Commuters waste productive man-hours at bus stations resulting largely from unorganised public transportation system. As a consequence, workers in both public and private sectors arrive at work late and exhausted with grave implications on national productivity.  In many of the urban cities, there are widespread complaints by commuters against poor public transportation system. It is worse in a city like Lagos with an estimated huge population of 21 million people with resultant road congestion.  The Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) scheme was introduced in 2008 as an interventionist measure by the state government to address some of these challenges. The idea of building a segregated lane for the BRT buses was to ensure that commuters who choose to ride the buses are saved the agony of time wastage and high level inconvenience associated with other buses, especially the yellow colour commercial transport operators.  Hence the preaching to car owners at the time to leave their vehicles at home and join the BRT buses to and from work. It all seemed to work well the first few years until the culture of lack of maintenance caught up with the operators and the buses started depreciating.  At the official launch of the BRT scheme into the state public transportation system in May 2008 by the former governor, Babatunde Fashola, 126 new high capacity buses were introduced. The first operators of the system- Nigerian Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) cooperatives would acquire additional buses to beef up the fleet to about 200 buses.  However, by 2014 prior to Fashola’s exit in 2015, the fleet had depleted to about 80 buses. This was even as passengers’ patronage had increased significantly.  It became obvious the operators could no longer cope, as new buses were not being injected to strengthen their operations. This was blamed majorly on lack of spare parts, as the operators resorted to fishing spare parts from carcasses of packed up buses within its garage at the Ojota loop to service those in operations.  The old buses still in operations were fast becoming like the “molues” with passengers hanging at the doors. This was at the time BRT services were only available from Mile 12 to CMS on the Lagos Island. The scheme had since expanded its scope to Ikorodu town; a densely populated outskirts of the Lagos metropolis where residents are gravitating because of comparative advantage in home rental.  Against the background of the deteriorating services by the NURTW, and the myriad of complaints by the commuting public, the new administration of Akinwunmi Ambode in November 2015 withdrew the BRT franchise from NURTW and vested same in Primero Transport Services Limited.  Dayo Mobereola, Ambode’s commissioner for transportation at the time had justified the action: “The termination of the franchise agreement with the operator is sequel to breaches of the BRT operations Service Level Agreement (SLA) it signed with the state government despite years of discussions and engagement to ensure the SLA was adhered to.  “Though the service level agreement requires a one-month notice prior to its termination, the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, (LAMATA), custodian of the agreement, had indeed given a three-month notice which the operator failed to honour.”  He further explained the government’s decision was premised on the inability of the operator to offer good public transport services to commuters on the all-important BRT corridor. “This has led to incessant complaints by members of the public over poor services provided by the operator and the deployment of vehicles not safe for use by the commuting public.”  The flag off of operations by the new franchisee – Primero Transport Services Limited, with air-conditioned buses in November 2015 was a relief, as the introduction of 434 buses ensured that passengers no longer spent hours at bus stations before boarding.  Recently, in an effort to add value to the system and woo commuters, Primero in partnership the Lagos Area Metropolitan Transport Authority (LAMATA), the regulator of the scheme, decided to introduce the intelligence transport system into the BRT operations.  Abiodun Dabiri, managing director of LAMATA, said the ITS in addition to helping commuters plan their journeys would also enable the operators build a database for a robust and efficient service delivery going forward.  “Commuters can plan their trips better using the BRT services. An application, Lagos BRT app, has already been developed to assist commuters in planning their journey. The app is on the Apple store and Google play store.”  According to Dabiri, commuters can download the app on their phones to enjoy the benefit of planning their trips while monitoring the deployment of buses along the BRT corridor.  He said: “In order to make the download easier, we have provided pull up banners with the quick response code to easily download the app.”  Connected to the new technology is an electronic ticketing system. This, according to Dabiri, comes with a huge benefit to all stakeholders in the BRT family. Aside ensuring revenue security and providing veritable platform for data collection to both the operator and the regulator, the e-ticket also provides commuters the convenience of loading money on the card.  “To use the e-ticketing system, there are two validators on the buses – the front for tap in and rear for tap out with the e-ticketing card known as the Lagos Connect. The front validator also validates the paper ticket which can be used for accessing BRT services. To load the cards, there are handheld devices for top up of cards or vend paper ticket at the terminals and bus shelters. The e-ticketing system runs on a robust platform with adequate security against hacking and information theft,” said Dabiri.  Fola Tinubu, managing director of Primero Transport Services Ltd, also confirmed that the ITS and the e-ticketing was a win-win for the operator, patrons of the BRT service and the regulator.