In furtherance of his consultation for the presidential ambition, former Vice President on Wednesday night met with lawmakers from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Reformed All Progressive Congress (rAPC) and other stakeholders at the National Assembly complex, Abuja. Atiku at the meeting solicited for overwhelming support of the lawmakers who are automatic delegates at the forthcoming PDP presidential primary election. The meeting which was earlier scheduled for 9am was postphoned to 8am for undisclosed reasons, BusinessDay reliably gathered. The lawmakers’ meeting with Atiku came barely 72 hours after the signing of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between PDP, R-APC, and 32 other political parties, which led to the formation of Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). BusinessDay had exclusively reported that some ranking members of APC had during a investigative hearing into ‘All sums due to Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), chaired by Ahmed Chachangi (Kaduna), declared their membership of CUPP, barely 24 hours after the signing of the MoU, at the Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja. The PDP caucus in the Lower Chamber was led by Chukwuma Onyema, acting Minority Leader in the House of Representatives. While addressing the lawmakers, Atiku who presented his Letter of Intent to lawmakers, also assured them of facilitating their return ticket in the forthcoming general election. Atiku in the letter of intent, solicited for the support of the lawmakers, saying the PDP must return to power to get Nigeria working again. The letter read in part: “After thorough consultations with my families, major stakeholders within and outside the party including party stalwarts, traditional and religious leaders, various youths and women groups, the civil society and the private sector; I , Atiku Abubakar, wish to inform you about my aspiration for the exalted office of the President of Federal Republic of Nigerian under the flagship of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “As stipulated by the Party constitution and guidelines for nomination, it is mandatory that we go through the process of presidential party primary election. “It is in line with this that I wish to humbly solicit your votes during this all important process. “I am in no doubt that with your support, I will emerge victorious amongst other candidates at the forthcoming Presidential primary election. “Together, we can liberate, repair and refocus our country Nigeria. Together, we can put Nigeria back in the right pedestal. Together, we can get Nigeria working again,” Atiku said in the letter. In his remarks, Onyema, who commended Atiku for consulting with them, noted that the consultation was an indication that Atiku recognised members of the National Assembly as an important group within the party. When accosted, Atiku declined to the Media after the meeting which ended by 9.32pm.