Today, data science has become the holy grail of employability skills. According to a McKinsey study, the demand in the United States will be 50 to 60 percent greater than supply by 2018. That translates to an estimated shortage of about 165,000 data professionals and 1.5 million managers and analysts. The Blossom Academy program provide students, from statistics, actuarial science, and engineering disciplines, access to the hyper-personalized innovative training program, giving them the opportunity to expand their career options by mastering the latest data science tools and methodologies. Seven years ago, founder Jeph Acheampong had his pocket picked in Accra, Ghana. He was listening to songs on his iTouch as he stepped into a taxi, proud that he had finally been able to get himself one after months of saving. When the music suddenly stopped, he turned and saw a young man running away with it. Four years later, while addressing a class of bright Ghanaian students with dim futures, Jeph wondered: “What if that young man could have found a decent job? Wouldn’t he have rather worked than pickpockets?” A closer look at Ghana’s education climate revealed a system that emphasizes on theoretical concepts rather than practical, employable skills, resulting in a mismatch or no employment. The inaugural selection process was launched earlier this year, generating over 950 applicants in less than a month. One of the selected applicants- Philemon Aidoo (now fellow), shares; “Coming from an Actuarial background, The Blossom Academy Talent Accelerator Program has given me a broader knowledge of what can be done with data in the finance and insurance industry. I’m much better prepared to work with data than before.” During the one-year immersive program, Blossom Academy offers self-paced training with one-on-one guidance from an industry-experienced mentor. Fellows focus on Machine Learning and Business Intelligence in a specific industry, which gives them the knowledge and skills to conduct robust analytics on a host of real-world problems. Through its analytics division, the accelerator also provides fellows a two-year employment after they complete the training, which could potentially lead to employment with multinationals, operating across Africa, through its placement programs. Blossom Academy is Ghana’s first data science talent accelerator providing an innovative talent acquisition solution for the world’s best technology startups and equipping university graduates in Ghana with the skills and experience needed for meaningful careers.