In a speech at the 2nd series of BusinessDay Future of Energy Conference held in Lagos on July 12, the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) said that henceforth, applications for licenses to generate power in the Nigeria will be procured through competitive bidding.  “But going forward, the competitive procurement regulation has been enacted by the Commission, therefore the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trader (NBET) will now do competitive procurement for new generation and will be done taking cognizance of integrated planning study to know how much power we need, where and how will power be sourced, renewable or on grid,” Olufunke Dinneh, general manager, legal management and licensing said.  NERC so far has issued 136 licenses out of which 62 are for grid connected power, the rest for embedded generation and other private power generation purposes but almost all were unsolicited. 12 of these licenses have already expired without the licensees renewing them indicating they may never have been used at all.  A competitive tender model will forestall such a situation because it will allow those with requisite financial and technical expertise to bid for power generation licenses.  Rather than simply issuing new licenses for only generation, the Commission will realize better value by thinking through the value chain. For example, does the intending licensee has a clear path for transmission considering that current transmission capacity from the national grid is sub optimal?  In the previous regime, investors made proposals and regulators issue licences when they meet stipulated conditions without considering their capacity to utilize the licenses they have been issued. Now, NERC says it will make certain that generation licences would actually be utilized and power generated would be bought, that there is an off-taker as this will enhance investment decision and ensure licenses are used in places where power it is most needed.  The commission also said that it has appointed the Japanese International Corporation to carry out a study of projected demand for electricity in Nigeria to know where there are critical needs and the best source of power that would be appropriate for the location before licenses are issued.  It is good that the Commission is keen to review its rules for distribution considering that stranded capacity from some embedded generation is wasted. Factories like Dangote and Lafarge produce sufficient power which can be sold to communities close to their plants but the extra regulation that requires them obtaining a distribution license and competes with DisCos makes this unattractive.  The move globally is towards a decentralized electricity system and this is the way the Commission should be going. Electricity generation should be local, generated from the most economic sources whether through gas-fired plants or renewable energy sources.  This means that that a uniform pricing template under the current Multi Year Tariff Order would be changed. Pricing energy should be based on market terms as this promotes conservation practices. Subsidies encourage wasteful use of energy and distort the market.  Therefore for current reforms the Commission is proposing to deliver value, it must be holistic, market-based and progressive.