The Coworking Industry is an emerging force that is shaping the entrepreneurial ecosystem globally. Going by the imperative of the industry, several conferences are held around the world to shape the agenda for a better industry. In 2017, Venia Business Hub hosted Nigeria’s first coworking conference in Lagos, unveiling the opportunities and value chain of the nascent industry to policy makers, entrepreneurs, investors, service providers, the media and coworking space operators. The entrepreneurial ecosystem in Nigeria has seen a fundamental shift since the emergence of Coworking and Tech Hubs, with many leading start-ups tracing their start-up locations to Coworking spaces including; Taxify, Flutterwave, Branch Int’l and AutoGenius, among others. Since inception in 2011, the Coworking movement has continued to gain momentum, with a surge in the rise of Coworking spaces across the country and with the Government’s emphasis on driving technology and innovation as a means of driving economic growth, as evidenced by the recent working visits by the Vice President of Nigeria, Yemi Osinbajo to various Coworking Hubs. “We are happy to see various stakeholders embracing Coworking and leveraging on its possibilities to drive entrepreneurship. LagosInnovates is one such example of the response to Coworking Conference and we expect to see much more exciting collaborations and initiatives by various ecosystem enablers.” said Kola Oyeneyin, CEO, Venia Business Hub and the creator, Coworking Conference Nigeria. The conference this year, Coworking: The Catalyst for Innovation, is aimed at connecting the dots of how coworking, co-creation, collaboration and technology are spurring innovation, entrepreneurship, wealth and job creation, while charting the course for a new economy and the future of work. Speakers include; Omobola Johnson. partner at TLCom and former Minister of Communication Technology; Iyin Aboyeji of Flutterwave, Africa’s leading payment platform; Kola Aina, chairman, Ventures Park, and Ola Brown of Greentree Investment Company, among others. Speaking on behalf of Access Bank PLC., the official title sponsor of Coworking Conference Nigeria, Victor Etuokwu executive director, Personal Banking Division, at Access Bank Plc. said “Access Bank is recognised as a leading bank in driving digital banking and fintech innovation in Africa. We seek to create new opportunities in emerging markets by providing a platform designed to inspire and challenge innovators and entrepreneurs, as such we have partnered with Coworking Conference Nigeria and leveraged on our global platform to further foster innovation, drive entrepreneurship as well as economic development”. The Conference is set to hold on Thursday July 26, 2018 at IMAX Filmhouse, Lekki, Lagos