The global cryptocurrency capitalization gained 18% two days after the Chartered Financial Analyst institution (CFA) announced that it will introduce topics covering blockchain and cryptocurrency to its syllabus. The bitcoin been the major currency as not really seen much difference in price movement with it price movement moving from gaining $200 to shedding it the next day. It’s been quite a while it gained the margin it rose to today. Since the inception of the news by CFA, Bitcoin has gained about $1000 increase in price movement signaling a 16% increase in price of the most popular cryptocurrency. The development from CFA to add cryptocurrency and blockchain to its syllabus as they are now be classified as a branch of finance already generated positive vibes amongst traders and those still doubting the growing industry. Foreign hedgefund managers and companies such as the Goldman sachs already ventured into this field which calls for it adoption to be consider by the CFA. While speaking to Bloomberg,Stephen Horan,MD for general education and curriculum at CFA Institute, said;“We saw the field [of crypto] advancing more quickly than other fields and we also saw it as more durable… This is not a passing fad.” CFA Institute, whose taxing three-level program has helped train more than 150,000 financial professionals, is adding topics on cryptocurrencies and blockchain to its Level I and II curriculums for the first time next year. Material for the 2019 exams will be released in August, giving candidates their first opportunity to start studying following a recommended 300 hours of study time. Cryptocurrency trading volume picked up as transactions increased to $20.1billion from $9.1billion prior to announcement. This shows a 121% increase in trading volume of all cryptocurrencies according to data gather from coinmarketcap.com The material for CFA on crypto and blockchain will appear alongside other fintech subjects including artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data and automated trading. More crypto topics, such as the intersection of virtual currencies and economics, is most likely to be added to the curriculum. The introduction of this new topics will also make an appearance in the CFA readings on professional ethics, an area which is said to be lacking in the crypto world. Many virtual currency projects operate in a legal gray zone, while digital-asset trading venues and initial coin offerings are rife with examples of fraud, market manipulation, money laundering and theft. Bitcoin, the most popular cryptocurrency, has lost more than half its value this year amid growing regulatory scrutiny and a series of exchange hack. Blockchain and cryptocurrency are steadily innovating ways transactions are done, data records and supply chain are been kept as corporate firms are including  this new technologies in their operation.