National Chairman of the reformed All Progressives Congress, rAPC  Buba Galadima has called on the National Electoral Commission, INEC to sack National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole and other members of the party’s National Executive Committee elected at its recently held National Convention. Galadima made the call in a letter to INEC obtained by journalists in which he described the process leading to the emergence of Oshiomhole and his team as illegal. The letter read in part, “as a foundation member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a member of its Board of Trustees, National Caucus and an automatic delegate at its National Convention, to bring to your notice that on 23rd June, 2018, the All Progressive Congress (APC) purportedly held a very flawed and undemocratic Convention for the purpose of electing its National Officers following the disputed Congresses held in various Wards (May 2, 2018), Local Governments (May 5, 2018), State Congress (May 8, 2018). “These Congresses leading up to the National Convention of the party were marred with serious irregularities and manipulations to the extent that in at least 22 States, parallel Congresses were held and different set of delegates and officers emerged. Some of the States includes: Abia, Adamawa, Bauchi, Benue, Cross-River, Delta, Enugu, Imo, Jigawa, Kaduna, Kano, Katsina, Kebbi, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos, Niger, Ondo, Oyo, Rivers, Sokoto and Zamfara. “You should please access the Report of your offices in these States for confirmation. In particular the “election” of the following officers of the party was in direct contravention of Article 20(1) of the APC Constitution, which says: “Unless otherwise provided for: All party posts prescribed or implied by this Constitution shall be filled by democratically conducted elections at the respective National Convention or Congress subject, where possible, to consensus, Provided that where a Candidate has emerged by consensus for an elective position, a vote of “Yes” or “No” by ballot or voice shall be called, to ensure that it was not an imposition which could breed discontent” The rAPC National Chairman also noted that in the course of the Convention proceedings, many other persons purportedly withdrew from the contest for the various offices, and the Convention Chairman announced them as unopposed and “elected” without following any form of due process, as affected the position of the National Secretary and others. According to him, “what transpired was that the Chairman of the Convention, His Excellency, Alhaji Mohammed Badaru Abubakar flagrantly usurped the powers of the delegates and declared 18 officers elected without following the laid down criteria. Galadima requested INEC “to intervene, following precedents established over the years, to declare invalid and unlawful and not to accord any form of recognition to officers purportedly elected at the APC Convention of June 23, 2018. ” The officers include the aforesaid 18 officers and indeed all those who purportedly withdrew during the Convention as they were just declared elected by the Chairman of the Convention Committee without a “Yes” or “No” vote and indeed without any form of democratic foundation. “It also includes the remaining officers as the Delegates election that produced them wase seriously flawed and not in compliance with relevant rules. Their emergence is a breach of the 1999 Constitution, the Electoral Act and the Constitution of the APC (Article 20(1)”, he submitted.