Before the Ekiti State governorship election of July 14, political analysts had said the conduct of the election would give a peek preview into 2019. Now that the election has come and gone, observers say if it is indeed a sign of what lies ahead, then there is much to fear as 2019 approaches. Even now, the dust raised by the Ekiti election, which INEC said was won by Kayode Fayemi of the APC, is yet to settle as the opposition PDP has rejected the results, alleging malpractices. PDP said the election “was far from being free, fair and credible”, described Fayemi’s victory as a “stolen mandate”, blamed INEC and security agencies for the “robbery”, and vowed to use “every constitutional means” to reclaim its victory. It said it was compiling “exhibits” as it prepares to head to the tribunal. This is even as a coalition of domestic and international election observers accredited to observe the Ekiti election has said the election fell short of global best practices and electoral standards and could not be recommended as a template for next year’s general elections. The observers, comprising representatives from over 50 domestic organisations, human rights groups and international election observer bodies, while commending INEC for certain improvements, faulted the deployment of 30,000 policemen for the election. They said the electoral process was largely characterised by unwholesome practices, such as vote-buying (where voters surreptitiously showed party agents which party they voted for and then went behind to get settled), ballot box snatching, sporadic shootings and intimidation of some party agents, among others. “The exercise witnessed a high level of unprecedented electoral-related challenges and such abuse will remain contentious until justice prevails, especially in the areas of cash inducement, arrests of political stalwarts by security agents and snatching of electoral materials by political thugs, among other abuses,” said Gabriel Nwambu of the Centre for Credible Leadership and Citizens Awareness, Abuja, who addressed journalists on behalf of the domestic observers. “Finger biometric capture was slow. Party stalwarts were indicating to voters where to thumbprint. Poll was delayed due to slow pace of machines. Party agents had huge cash and were close to voting points. Security agents were indifferent to cash inducement of voters. The whole process falls short of the compliance with international best standards,” he said. Virginia Marumoa-Gae of the International Republican Institute (IRIS) in South Africa, one of the international observers, said, “Voters showed their ballot papers to party agents to collect money, thugs disrupted voting process by shooting, but the police and other attaching security agents did well by establishing their presence at the polling units as stipulated by the constitution. We also noted that the INEC has improved on card readers this time.”