Reactions have continued to trail the just concluded governorship election in Ekiti State, as international observers have called on the Federal Government to prosecute culprits of vote buying on election day.  The call was made by the International Republican Institute (IRI) and National Democratic Institute (NDI) on Friday at a joint news conference in Abuja.  They also urged the Federal Government to urgently establish the Electoral Offences Tribunal  and Political Parties Registration  Commission to ensure that electoral offenders are punished and activities of political parties are closely monitored.  In its Pre-Election Statement on Preparations for 2019 General Elections, the joint delegation led by Christopher Fomunyoh also charged President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill into law.  While expressing concern that rising insecurity across the country could hamper the preparation of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct credible 2019 elections, Fomunyoh emphasised the need for security agencies to be more professional and impartial in guaranteeing security during elections.  The delegation which has been monitoring elections in the country since the return to civilian rule in 1999, and participated in the just concluded election in Ekiti State, also urged political parties to be transparent in their primaries.  According to him, “The Federal Government should: intensify efforts to address insecurity in many parts of the country;  “Enforce the law in regard to illegal activities such as vote buying on election day wherever it occurs;  “Establish the Electoral Offenses and Political Parties Registration Commission as soon as possible to enhance the accountability of political parties with regards to the funding of campaigns and other services.”  The group pointed out that vote buying and other electoral malpractices were very visible in Ekiti, noting that they continue to occur because offenders have not been brought to book.  They equally recommended that INEC pursue “technological advances that could allow issuance of PVCs upon registration” and also improve the card reader technology.  They also tasked the electoral umpire to evolve a political process that will be accessible to people living with disabilities and release samples of ballot papers early to facilitate voter education.  They observed that the 2019 general elections will be keenly contested, noting that INEC has made immense efforts to ensure that every election records significant improvement from the previous ones.  The delegation encouraged Nigerians to continue in their efforts to enhance citizens confidence and participation in elections.  Members of the delegation were Pauline Baker, President Emeritus, Fund for Peace (United States), Christopher Fomunyoh, Regional Director for Central and West Africa, NDI (Cameroon).  Also present were Commissioner Terry Tselane, Vice Chairperson, Electoral Commission (South Africa), Jan Surotchak, Regional Director for Europe, IRI and Lauren Poch Blanchard, Specialist in African Affairs, Congressional Research Service (United States).