In our journey through life we would encounter challenges and circumstances that hit us in the face like a lethal punch. These challenges give us ample opportunities to turn away from our goals, however we have a choice. Life is a process and we are refined as we pass through it. Trees do not grow overnight. They have to pass through several seasons before they turn into that sturdy “all-weather” tree. Rain will fall, Sun will shine, and storm will blow, several times for several years. These weather conditions deal strong blows on the tree. At the initial stage of growth they may look bent over with the ferociousness of the factors in the environment, but at the end they spring back and become sturdy, immovable and unassailable throughout its lifespan. In the same way also there are seasons in a man’s life and in every business. These seasons may not be pleasant at all, and they are not most of the time. The whole experience may come so strong like we are about being destroyed. Apostle Paul said it in a different way about his experience “that they were under great pressure beyond their ability to endure, that they despaired of life in itself’’ (1Cor.1:18). For example friends and family may let us down, you have great ideas but no money to sponsor it, academic failures, loss of money, sack letter or loss of projects that you are working on. It could be confusion in not knowing where to begin again after being beaten blue and black by failure. All these put together may make us want to throw in the towel and call it quits. However, our reaction to them goes a long way in determining the outcome of our lives. They have come not to destroy us though it appears so, they have come to prepare and strengthen us for the future. How we perceive all these determines how we end up in life. Trying something new always has its attendant challenges and most business schools of the world cannot help much as they deal mostly with theoretical knowledge not practiced by those who lecture them. These challenges and supposed loss can be misinterpreted and can cause us to give up and throw in the towel. This is the most critical point in the life of a business and if you dare throw in the towel at this stage, you have wasted years of learning. Great loss indeed! At the point you are experiencing these challenges, you are being formed to become strong, sturdy and immovable in the circumstances of life. The process of proper formation is a prerequisite for our success, and it is truncated the moment we give up. There is a difference between SCHOOL training and LIFE training. Most times they are two parallel linesand a world apart. If you pass in school and you fail in life you are a loser. If you FAIL in school and you pass in life you are a WINNER. So what must we do to harness the potentials in life’s losses? 1. No retreat no surrender: Scripture says looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him He endured… (Heb. 12: 2). The picture of the future makes for strength and encouragement in your journey to success in business. Are you better off owning things or you are better off being owned? You cannot see the picture of the future and despise the challenges of the present that is meant to lead you there. 2. Learning mindset. It must be settled in your mind that life is a teacher and the challenges are tests and examinations to take us over to the next level.  This makes us have a learning attitude. However we must not always make mistakes ourselves, it is better to learn from others so as to minimize our mistakes. All of this call for a humble mind to be able to learn. Talk less, listen more, have the mind of a child so you can pick new things. When you fall, do not remain there, pick up yourself and continue. 3. Right attitude. James 1:2 says we should consider it pure joy when we go through trials of many kinds. So that should be our attitude. This is because there is sure victory at the end if we stick to God’s word and to the vision we have. Since successful people went through it, we are no different if our intention is to be successful at what we do.If you ever stop midway, the entire learning is lost and you need to begin again. “He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day”. Harness all the curve balls that life throws at you and turn them to a BLESSING. You must press through and refuse to give failure opportunity in your life to manifest. That is what makes for success. 4. Recognition You must recognise that resident in every challenge that life throws at you are your blessing. Instead of allowing it to crush you, you must be busy trying to figure out where your blessing is hiding. Ask God to open your eyes to recognize what is in it for you. Remain blessed. @spiritonomics  Debo Atiba 