Lafarge Africa Plc on Tuesday released its unaudited financial statements for the half-year (H1) period ended June 31, 2018. The results at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) show group earnings increased to N162.291billion against N154.839billiion revenue recorded in the corresponding half-year of 2017. “Our company saw strong market growth in Nigeria reflecting the end of the recession in the cement market. Cement demand has been on the rise since the beginning of 2018. We saw a 22percent increase in volume, benefiting from export to Ghana which began in Q4 2017. EBITDA for our Nigeria operations was N19.1 billion and EBITDA margin of 32.2percent, thanks to robust operational performance and continuous effort to reduce cash costs,’’ said Michel Puchercos, CEO of Lafarge Africa Plc. Thanks to a stable pricing and a favorable economic environment, Lafarge reported a profit of N1.9 billion in its Nigeria operation for the second quarter of 2018. Strong market growth as well as operational stability, success of the turnaround plan implementation indicated the end of the recession in the cement market. He added that the lack of large infrastructural projects impacted volumes in the company’s South Africa operations, but revenues improved by 7.7percent on the back of price increase in all segments in Q1 and FX translational effect. ‘’Aggregates, however, turned positive in Q2 despite low infrastructure spending. Success in the Nigeria operations has been due to operational stability, success of the turnaround plan implementation and volume improvement,” Puchercos added. Comparing overall results to the corresponding quarter in 2017, net sales increased by 11percent to N81.6 billion with Nigeria accounting for 73percent of total sales; Nigeria operations delivered net sales of N59.3billion and EBITDA of N19.1billion. Strong sales in Nigeria increased volumes in Q2 2018 by 18.7percent (inclusive of export) and 9.6% in ReadyMix. In total, 68 kilotons of cement have been exported to Ghana with 28kt shipped in Q2 2018.The building solutions provider expects the Individual Home Builder segment to remain resilient. The Board of Lafarge Africa Plc has approved the extension of existing shareholder loan and a Right Issue of up to N82billion, subject to all corporate and regulatory approvals. The restructuring is aimed at reducing the Company’s leverage position as well as strengthening its profitability. Speaking on its refinancing plan, Bruno Bayet, CFO of Lafarge Africa said, “It’s aimed at preparing for future development in Nigeria, improving the company’s leverage as well as strengthen its profitability. The proposed refinancing plan includes an extension of existing shareholders dollar-denominated loan of $315 million and a new right issue of N82bn.” Looking forward, Puchercos expects, “New route-to-market initiatives to deliver and continuous focus on cash cost reduction will drive operational performance in H2. Our South Africa management is focused on executing the turnaround plan implemented in Q1; the target for H2 is to deliver volumes. The focus is on growing the contribution margin. Actions around efficiency and cost management are on track and will contribute to significant savings in production costs across all the segments in H2”. 