Ekiti State Governor-elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has released a list of eminent citizens of the state that will serve in the Governorship Transition Committee, charged with the responsibility of liaising with the outgoing administration for a smooth transition ahead of the October 16thtake off date of the new government in the state. The 32-member committee is headed by a former member of the National Assembly, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi as chairman, while a former Chairman of Ijero Local Government Council, Hon Abiodun Omoleye will serve as deputy Chair. A former Permanent Secretary in the state’s civil service, Mr Ayodeji Ajayi, is the secretary of the committee. The Committee is to be known as the Ekiti State 2018 JKF/APC Governorship Transition Committee. According to a statement signed by the Special Adviser on Media to the Governor-elect, Mr Yinka Oyebode, the inauguration of the Governorship Transition Committee will hold at the Conference Hall, AB Hotels, Ado-Ekiti, on Wednesday, July 25th, by 12 noon. Members of the Governorship Transition Committee, Ekiti State are:  The Terms of Reference of the committee members include: *        Develop a clear framework for liaison and establish clear channels of formal communications with the outgoing administration for the purposes of a smooth transition. *       Review and make preliminary assessment of the fiscal position of government with particular emphasis on: –       Status of assets and liabilities of government. –      Status of implementation of the 2018 Appropriation –      Revenue & cash flow position of government. –     Public debt profile of government and their deployment. –      Salary arrears due to all public-sector workers and pensioners. *       Determine the status of public procurement of government with particular emphasis on: -.       Government’s on-going and outstanding contractual obligations. *       To receive handover documents from Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government, with a view to understanding the most important operational, regulatory and/or urgent issues confronting the incoming administration, in order to guide the fine-tuning and prioritisation of programmes and policies in the incoming administration’s governance agenda. *       Interface with various stakeholders’ groups such as Labour Unions, Traditional Rulers; Academia; Religious Bodies; Transport Workers; Market Men and Women; Artisans; Professionals; Farmers CDAs; etc; with a view to ascertaining their expectations of the incoming administration. *    The committee shall submit its final report by Friday, September 7, 2018.  Signed: Yinka Oyebode Special Adviser (Media) to Governor Elect, Ekiti State. 