Twenty-hours after 51 lawmakers in both chambers of the National Assembly defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has paid a courtesy call on the PDP. Particularly, the PDP and SDP described President Muhammadu Buhari as the common enemy of the country. SDP National Publicity Secretary, Goldba Tolofari, who paid a courtesy call on her counterpart PDP counterpart Kola Ologbondiyan at PDP National secretariat in Abuja on Wednesday said: “We have common enemy, Buhari is the enemy of Nigeria. He’s a common enemy to SDP and PDP, that is why we are here to rescue the nation.” Tolofari, who said that she brought greetings from SDP Chairman Olu Falae, added that when Nigerians brought Buhari into power, they thought they were bringing in a messaiah that will rescue the nation. While lamenting the poor state of the economy, the SDP spokesperson pointed out that other Africa countries have lost respect for Nigeria. “They are not democrat that is why things are deteriorating and we cannot watch and see things going they way they are. “Buhari is the Minister of Petroleum and the whole place stinks of corruption. Graduate ares taxi drivers, there is hunger everywhere and that is why our youths are carrying guns with killings everywhere,” she said. Commending Ologbondiyan for giving voice to alternative views which the led Federal Government would rather muffle, Tolofari said, “We have come to show our appreciation for the professional way you have handled the task of speaking for the majority of millions of Nigerians who have been suffering under the yoke of the incompetence and heartlessness that have characterized the President Buhari administration since 2015 We admire your tirelessness, courage and the unassailable logic in yo arguments.” She, however, said that working together with Ologbondiyan would help to uproot the common obstacle holding down national growth and development. On his part, Ologbondiyan said it was for the purpose of pushing the government of President Buhari out of power that Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed with SDP and other 37 parties. PDP spokesman said that the rescue mission is already on, adding that the result was the mass defection of lawmakers from APC to PDP at the National Assembly on Tuesday. He pointed out that President Buhari has failed Nigerians and couldn’t fight Boko Haram, corruption and other vices bedevilling the nation. He cited a case of the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, who was accused of certificate forgery, adding, “We don’t expect her to stay a day longer, but because Buhari body language encourages corruption that is why she is still there. Buhari must be voted out.”  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 