Nigeria’s electricity distribution companies (DisCos) who had hitherto feared a 60 per cent revenue loss from the eligible customer directive issued last year by Babatunde Fashola, minister of Power, Works and Housing will now heave a sigh of relief as the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has been directed to compensate them.
BusinessDay obtained a copy of the directive Fashola issued NERC directing it to enforce a transition charge on eligible customers. The Eligible Customer declaration was issued in May last year, which allowed electricity consumers who use up to 2MW of power to buy directly from Generation Companies (GenCos), a move, DisCos have largely resisted.
“Pursuant to powers conferred on the minister by Part II, Section 28 of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005, (the Act), I direct that the competition transition charge a distribution licensee is entitled to collect from a group of consumers or eligible customers in a month, for such loss of revenue or inability to earn permitted rates of return on its assets, as a consequence of the issuance of a permit or license by the Commission for the supply of electricity to such a consumer or eligible customers, be limited to the average monthly total energy supplied to the group of consumers or eligible customers over the three months preceding the issuance of the permit or license for the alternative supply (in kWh), times the average tariff chargeable by the distribution licensee to the group of consumers or eligible customers less the average wholesale cost of the electricity supplied by the distribution licensee to the consumer or the eligible customer,” said the directive issued to NERC obtained exclusively by BusinessDay.
The minister explains that if, for the three months prior to the issuance of the permit or license to an eligible customer, the average tariff is N29.00 per kWh, the average cost of electricity from the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trader is N19.50 per kWh, the average consumption when the consumers is receiving supply is 2MWh/h and the average hours of supply is 6 hours per day, over the preceding three months, the competition transition charge is limited to (N29.00-N19.50) per 2,000 kWh/h X 6 hours/day X by 31 days, or N3,534,000. Stripped of all technical verbiage, it means the DisCos would be compensated for the loss of revenue from their customers by getting an additional charge on the energy supplied from GenCos.
“The competition transition charge is additional to the charges to the consumers and eligible customers under the proposed permit or license. If the group of consumers or eligible customers are contracted to pay N35 per kWh (net of any competition transition charge) under the proposed permit or license, the total monthly payment to their contracted supplier, additional to the competition transition charge, would be Nn35.00 per kWh multiplied by 24 hours/day X by 31 days, or N52,080,000,” said the minister in the directive.
Fashola also said, “I further direct that if the consumers and eligible customers agree to pay this maximum competition transition charge (based on parameters and evidence of payment reflected in their electricity bills for the previous three months), for the duration of the proposed permit or license, and are not indebted to the distribution licensee, then the Commission shall issue the proposed permit or license without any further explicit consent of the distribution licensee.” NERC has received eleven applications so far from interested eligible customers but no application has been approved yet based on an inability to agree on a transition charge and other modalities to effectively operationalise the directive.
DisCos had opposed the policy on the grounds that it is immature to declare it in a transition electricity market and it would shrink their profit margins.
“Discos obviously could lose a good number of their large customers, and revenues from these customers. Most of the customers affected by the declaration are Maximum Demand customers; this category of customers generate more than 60% of Discos’ revenues,” Odion Omonfoman, energy consultant and the CEO of New Hampshire Capital Ltd told BusinessDay at the time. Idowu Oyebanji, a UK-based chartered power system engineer, said for the policy to work, it would require tweaking the EPSRA 2005. “The EPSRA 2005 needs to be updated to reflect the obligations of licensees in relation to the declaration. By extension, relevant Grid Codes (transmission and distribution codes), standards, manuals and policies have to be updated,” said Oyebanji. NERC on July 22, issued an updated distribution code reflecting the obligations of licensees.  ISAAC ANYAOGU 