Mercedes-Benz can look back on the strongest-selling quarter in the companies’ history. From April to June, 594,528 customers received their new vehicles (+1.9 percent). With this figure, more vehicles were sold than ever before in a half-year and since the beginning of the year,  1,188,832 cars with the three-pointed star were delivered to customers all over the world. Unit sales were 3.9 percent higher than in the previous highest first half-year in 2017. In the first six months, it was the premium brand with the most new registrations in several markets, including Germany, France, Russia, Switzerland, Portugal, South Korea, Australia, the USA and Canada. With 203,783 vehicles sold, June was the month with the second highest sales since the beginning of the year (-2.6 percent). Figures of last month were affected amongst other things by a fire at a US supplier where a significant lower production of the SUVs for the world market at the plant in Tuscaloosa and sales were less than planned. Britta Seeger, member of board of management of Daimler AG responsible for Mercedes-Benz Cars Marketing & Sales attributed the market performance to an outstanding team performance, adding that the team can look back on the most successful half-year in the history of the brand. ‘’With over 1.18 million cars sold in the first six months, we have laid a good foundation for a successful year 2018. The new A-Class has had a very successful reception from the markets and the automaker launche the new C-Class in July. These two volume models will make a significant contribution to the sales success of Mercedes-Benz in the second half of the year’’. He stated. By region and market, 476,790 cars were sold in the first half of the year or (-1.5 percent) in Europe , which is slightly less than in the previous, so far best, first half-year in 2017.  Almost one third of were sold in Germany, where more than 150,000 customers were able to receive their new products (-0.2 percent). In France, Spain, Sweden, Poland and Denmark, more cars with the three-pointed star were sold than ever before in the first six months of a year. It completed the first half of the year in the Asia-Pacific region with new best-ever sales, by a double-digit 12.5 percent increase to 493,358 units. Biggest contribution to this growth came from China, where 340,164 cars were sold in the first six months, and an increase of 16.2 percent. More cars than ever were sold in the first half-year in the markets of South Korea, Japan, India, Thailand and Malaysia. S-Class Saloon sales increased by 27.5 percent to 43,106 units in the first half of the year. Growth in sales of the luxury model was particularly strong in the flagship’s biggest markets of China, USA, South Korea and Germany. The Mercedes-Maybach S-Class Saloon set a new record in the first half of the year. Since its market launch, more than 30,000 units have now been handed over to customers. E-Class Saloon and Estate demand is higher than ever before. Since the beginning of the year, sales increased to the new record number of 182,135 units (+0.1%). The long-wheelbase version of the E-Class Saloon was especially popular in the first half-year; just like the long-wheelbase version of the C-Class Saloon, it posted very strong growth and a new sales record. Despite restricted production of the GLE and GLS models last month, the SUVs achieved a new sales record in the first half of the year where a total of 422,645 units of the GLA, GLC, GLC Coupé, GLE, GLE Coupé, GLS and G-Class were delivered to customers worldwide (+9.8%) due to the bestseller amongst the SUVs, the GLC.