Ekiti State Governor -elect, Kayode Fayemi has declared that he will probe the administration of the outgoing Governor Ayodele Fayose. Fielding questions from State House Correspondents after he was formerly presented to President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday, Fayemi who stated that there was need to remove this election from personalities, noted that the election that we fought on issues.
“ It will be irresponsible on my part to come here and say that we will not examine what transpired in the last four years, what was received in Ekiti State and the expenditures in that period” He said his administration will want to know “ why we were we not able to pay salaries in the state, adding that “ these issues should be examined in the interest of good governance.
“It is not about probing Fayose, probing Eleka etc, it is about not repeating the mistakes of the past and giving our people good government and how to do so will also involve looking at what transpired in the last four years.” he said Fayemi who disclosed that he has started the process of putting the government together, said transition committee has already began “to look into the record of the state, its assets and liabilities adding that he expect the outgoing government to extend its hands of cooperation to the committee “ We will engage also all of our professionals to ensure that we deliver good governance to Ekiti people. That is what they voted for and that is what we intend to give. So, basically, this three months will be used for this purpose” “What sold us to the people is really the track records of our commitments to social investment, good government, transparency in government, extensive infrastructure and community involvement. These were the things . “Every where we went during the campaign, we were able to show what we did for each community. All of our 132 communities were are projecting all of them and they knew that our government was regular in payment of salaries , support to a range of the weak and vulnerable in the society and that was really what sold us. Fayemi denied allegations of voted buying , challenging anyone with evidence to make such evidence public. “I haven’t any substantive evidence of allegations of vote buying and intimidation. In the place where l voted there was no vote buying anywhere.
“As far as our party is concerned, we did not engage in that, it is not our style. He disclosed that his party the All Progressive Congress ( APC) won the election fair and square” adding that “it was an election that we fought on issues and not on the basis of any vote buying. So, who ever has any evidence of that should present it to an independently verifiable audience” Speaking on his program for the state, Fayemi declared that “ We always been interested that out people lived a decent life, a life without hunger, with social support and that is why we were paying social security benefits to the elderly, we provided the youth graduate scheme fir the recent graduates, provided support for the communities” “For us, we never saw stomach infrastructure from any pedestrian manner that the current administration has lived it up to. For us, it is about total development of our people, human capital development in education, health care, in social services and infrastructure development. It is the services we focused in. “We increased salaries three times so that people could put food on their table in four years. That was why we provided range of allowances fo4 the workers . There was a huge difference between what we did and the present administration with lack of salaries , heartless , despair and despondency. We are restoring the values and reclaiming our mandate. The chairman of the APC Ekiti election committee Governor Atiku Bagudu commended the party leaders, including President Muhamamdu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo , the National leaders, stakeholders and Ekiti people for the success of the eclectic not “We had a vey successful election, it was quite peaceful and Ekiti on the day the election results were declared, there was jubilation and we congratulate them. We thank INEC and the security despite the misconstrued reports, provided their best. I have seen many who said this is the most peaceful election we have had.” “Let people campaign on issues and here we have a candidate who was humble and despite what happened before, he was humble to say in 2014 that if that was the wishes of Ekiti people, I will not go to court. Ekiti people have once again delivered their wishes and anyone who loves Ekiti should respect their wishes “ he said