Smuggling of food items into Nigeria through the land borders, especially from Seme in the Republic of Benin to Lagos, has for long been a cog in the wheel of Nigeria’s effort to drive self-sufficiency in food production. One major food item that has been caught in this complex web is rice, a staple in many Nigerian homes. It was in the bid to boost national rice sufficiency that the Federal Government of Nigeria banned importation of rice into the country through the land borders while also placing a 70-percent tariff on rice imported through the ports. These steps by the government seem to be yielding results. Data from the Thailand Rice Exporters Association show that Thai rice exports to Nigeria dropped by 58.50 percent to 20,973 metric tonnes (MT) as at September 2017, from 58,260 MT in 2016. The exports fell by 96.74 percent when compared to the 2015 figures of 644,131 MT. Yet, imported rice floods Nigerian markets. Curiously, however, rice exports to Republic of Benin increased significantly within the same period. Benin imported 1,330,809 MT of rice between January and September 2017, a 51.9-percent increase from 876,228 MT it imported within the same period in 2016, according to data by the Thai rice exporters. This is despite that Benin’s population is less than 10 percent of Nigeria’s and that Benin does not consume parboiled rice which it imports. So, where were the excess imports into Republic of Benin ending up? It was against this background that this writer was assigned with the task of attempting to “smuggle” rice from Seme to Lagos with the aim of ascertaining whether rice smuggling across the land borders was still a thriving business.  A risky affair I didn’t know much about the task I was embarking upon. So, I called up a few friends who might be of help. The response was not encouraging. “Hey, this is a very dangerous path you are about to tread,” one said. “I will advise you to steer clear of such investigations and face other more mundane, harmless matters. Smuggling is dangerous and smugglers are even more so, if you dare rock their boat.” Another said, “You make me laugh. The manner in which these networks of smugglers would catch up with you and waste you would surprise you. You won’t know what hit you.” But rather than discourage me, these words strengthened my resolve to go on with the project, and also put me on maximum alert. Frantic search for a lead A few acquaintances had told me in the past they knew a couple of people who smuggle commodities through the Seme border. It was time to use those contacts. One of my old acquaintances told me in a telephone conversation that he smuggles cars and not rice. “After buying the car you get the chassis number and other necessary details. When you have these, give them to me and I will send them to the person I need to send them to in Customs Service; he will give me the price of the whole thing, based on the year of the car, then we start work,” the acquaintance told me.  “When you buy the car, the first thing is to get the Cotonou papers, also known as Beninoit. It is called laisez passé. Get this clear. Before the vehicle can pass through the normal Seme land border, the papers must be done. “This is a clean business. This is what I am into now. I have a Mercedes C300 in Cotonou, I can send the photos to you through WhatsApp. The last time I went, I brought Prado 2012/13 and a C Class 2010. It took us about three weeks to clear, because we did not start the process early enough. Otherwise, it takes two weeks to clear. The papers take four to five days to process. Once this is done, you drive your car comfortably across the border,” he said. The acquaintance told me on the phone that I should not trust those who offer to do the papers for me at a cheaper – for instance, asking for N800,000 for a job of N1.2 million. His reason: “You might get the papers but they may not be captured in Customs database.” “The toughest guys to evade are the Customs officials after Badagry. They have laptops connected to the central database and when they catch you, your car is impounded,” he told me. “The contact I have at the Customs is top secret. I am only mentioning it to you because we are close and you are interested in the business. It is highly reliable. My assurance to you is 100 percent, we can do business. The most important thing is clearing the cars, not shipping them. There are many uncleared cars sitting in Cotonou seaport as we speak,” he said as the call came to an end. Alas, I was not interested in cars. Even though it sounded like something I could explore, my budget could not carry it. So, my search continued. After a total of 26 calls, each lasting 20 minutes on the average, I got what looked like a lead. One of my contacts told me I should go to Ilaro in Ogun State where I would meet the ringleader of a smuggling cartel. The date was Sunday, September 17, 2017. The next day I set out for Ilaro, but soon reached a dead-end as it turned out the ringleader I was chasing after was not in town. I was despairing and getting discouraged at this point. Time was ticking and I seemed to be making no progress. It was then that someone referred me to a friend of his in Mowu, after Agbara, in Lagos. That, I hoped, would be the breakthrough I needed. Trip to Badagry I met the person I was directed to at a gas station in Mowu at about 7am. Together, we headed for Badagry to meet some of his friends in an expensive hotel. There, they said to initiate me, I must first buy them drinks, pepper soup, isi-ewu (goat head) and pay for them to use the services of commercial consorts at the hotel. This cost a whopping N30,000. At the end, I still did not know anything about how they smuggle rice through Seme land border and it was 9pm already. Afraid my security was at stake, I decided I was not going to sleep with them at the hotel. So, I left the hotel hoping to find a fairly-priced guest house to rest myself.  But during the time I spent with the smuggling cartel at the hotel, I struck up conversation with one of them who looked a lot more welcoming than the rest. I told him a friend of mine had a consignment of rice sitting in Thailand but would not ship it until he was sure I could successfully bring it into Nigeria when it arrives in Cotonou. His eyes lit up and we exchanged telephone numbers. The following morning, I called him and he told me where to meet him. Breakthrough at last The smuggler took me to Cotonou. When we arrived, he invited three of his friends, a lady (who turned out to be his girlfriend) and two men. We lodged in a beachfront hotel for two nights and the bills were on me since I presented myself as a well-to-do businessman. The bills were quite a burden, with a room going for N10,400 per night (I paid for three rooms for two nights) and the meals costing an average of N1,500 per plate. Cotonou is indeed a beautiful port city, but I did not enjoy the beautiful scenery because I was concerned about both my fiscal and physical security. I was told not to worry because they wanted to introduce me to a “very big madam”, known simply as Funmilayo, of Nigerian descent, who controls a big clearing and forwarding business in Cotonou as well as a powerful smuggling racket. I waited. They took time to groom me through series of lectures, ranging from how to spot potential business threats, such as hostile law enforcement agents, to how to maximise profit once my rice arrives in Lagos. I was told about the three big warehouses in Cotonou, where goods are held temporarily before the onward journey to various destinations, Nigeria in particular. There is the Cherika in Akpakpa, one kilometre from Cotonou, which has the capacity to hold 25 40-ft containers of 50kg bags of imported rice. A 40-ft container takes between 1,000 and 1,400 50kg bags of rice. The other two warehouses are Defezi, close the Cotonou Port, and Cica in the Missebo area of Cotonou. The former can hold 40,000 50kg bags (40×40-ft container loads) of rice, while the latter can take 20,000. Meeting Funmi After a long wait, I was finally ushered into the presence of Funmi, an amiable-looking ‘madam’, who said she has been doing this business for more years than she can remember. She quickly assessed me and from the look on her face, she must have been satisfied with what she saw. She immediately started making the necessary calls meant to fill her in on the latest developments at the port. As soon as she was done with her calls, we were back to business. Given that my proposition was to import a container load of rice from Thailand through Cotonou to Lagos, she gave a breakdown of the process as follows: “The container load of rice must be duly registered with Cotonou as the port of destination and the name of the one who is to receive it. Once the container of rice arrives in Cotonou, the rest is easy to handle,” she said. I was told I would have to pay Customs and Excise duties. And because the rice is meant to be smuggled into Nigeria, I would pay N1,700 per bag. Our projection was for 520 units of 50kg bags, which is what a 20-ft container usually carries. “That N1,700 per bag will be used to settle police, Customs and to pay for space at one of the warehouses. This does not include the lorry fare from Cotonou to Seme. Once the lorry gets to Seme border, I will take over,” my guide told me. At this point, I realised my funds were rapidly depleting and I could not sponsor another night of conspicuous consumption. I told my guide I needed to smuggle some bags of rice into Nigeria the following day. We quickly went to Seme and paid for three bags of rice. But since it was just evening, around 4pm, I was told we could not move the bags of rice out immediately. Unfortunately, I was too cautious to take photographs for fear of giving myself away as a spy. I paid N10,700 for each 50kg bag of Caprice and an additional N2,000 per bag to settle Customs officials and others along the route. Now, because the bags of rice were loaded in the dark, I did not see what was being put into the vehicles. Uneasy passage to Lagos We left Seme at 2am in a convoy of about 10 other old cars modified to carry rice. The backseats were clearly not meant for human passengers because they were hollowed into shapes that could hold as many as 12 units of 50kg bags of rice when piled up from floor to the ceiling of the car. The boot of the cars protruded underneath by about one metre and the rear shock absorbers were adjusted such that the height of the car rose by an additional one metre to make up for the additional depth of the boots. These modified boots could take between 15 and 20 units of 50kg bags of rice. Our convoy carried a consignment of over 600 units of 50kg bags of rice. The journey was stressful because although my guide negotiated for me to get a front passenger seat in one of the cars in the convoy, I sat on a bag of rice. The motion was slow because the vehicles were clearly overloaded and had lost their original capacity. It was dark and I cannot say I understood the geographic coordinates of our journey. However, each time we encountered law enforcement agents, there was a little delay to clear with whichever law enforcement agency it was we encountered. We were always soon on our way once again. I thought the N2,000 per bag was doing its job. We got to Agbara at 4:35am but the bags of rice were offloaded around 5:30am at Alagboron, 2 kilometres away from Iyana-Iba. Instead of the Caprice I had paid for, I was presented with three bags of African Princess brand of rice. I didn’t argue. I took my three bags of rice to BusinessDay office as evidence of my smuggling exploits. The experience was eye-opening. I saw market women attempting to smuggle rice in the most creative ways. Some emptied the bags of rice into plastic bags and some carried them in their wrappers strapped like babies to their backs. I saw that smuggling rice through the land borders is not as easy as it might sound, unless you have access to a well-organised cartel. I saw bags of rice seized by Customs officials, and I saw women who were molested for carrying as little as a 25kg bag of rice. Later, I asked a neighbour who deals in food items how much a bag of Caprice was sold in the market. She said it was between N14,000 and N15,000. However, when the enforcement of the ban on importation through the land borders was stiff, a bag of Caprice sold for as much as N18,000. Smuggling stalling Nigeria’s rice sufficiency initiative The ban on importation of rice into Nigeria through its land borders was designed to boost national rice sufficiency. The agriculture promotion policy of the Federal Government for 2016 to 2020 shows rice production in the country is currently at 2.3 million metric tonnes per annum, with a 4-million-tonne deficit out of the country’s 6.3 million metric tonnes of demand. Nigeria spent more than N1 trillion ($2.7 billion) importing food in 2015, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). The country, which vies with Angola as the continent’s largest oil producer, is turning to farming as dwindling oil income drove the economy in 2016 to its first full-year contraction in a quarter century. “I stopped farming rice for more than 15 years but the ban imposed on rice importation has now made me go back to farming,” said Sunday Oketa, chairman of rice farmers in Nkeleke Unuhu community, a rural settlement in Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, during BusinessDay’s visit to rice farms in the state. “Importation of foreign rice was responsible for relegation of Made-in-Nigeria rice, but since the ban on rice importation, we farmers have been encouraged to return to our farms and cultivate more rice,” Oketa added. Dangote Group, Nigeria’s largest conglomerate, is making a five-year investment of at least $1 billion to grow and process rice in seven states. Dangote Rice Ltd., a unit of the Lagos-based company, plans to increase cultivation of paddy, or raw rice, to 150,000 hectares (371,000 acres) and harvest an annual 1.7 million metric tonnes by 2019. Tunji Owoeye, managing director, Elephant Group Plc and chairman, Rice Investors Group of Nigeria, said by discouraging imports, while at the same time encouraging local production and supporting the value chain in ramping up production, the country has been able to achieve appreciable growth in self-sufficiency in food production, particularly rice. Analysts, however, say smuggling through the land borders may stall the effectiveness of these initiatives. Nigeria has numerous entry points with neighbouring countries which the relevant agencies are simply unable to effectively police. As such, even though rice importation through the ports has almost disappeared on account of a discouraging 70-percent tariff, and though it is officially not permissible through the borders, the smuggled commodity still finds its way to markets and, invariably, homes across the country. Akai Egwuonwu, CEO, Anambra Rice Limited, told BusinessDay that after the mill commenced operation in 2008, it was shut down after a year (in 2009) until 2012 due to “excess importation of foreign rice that we cannot compete against”. The closure saw a multi-million dollar investment wasting away while the hundreds of jobs it could have created, taxes it could have paid to government, and even returns on investment were lost. “The government needs to sustain the fight against illegal importation of goods (especially food) into the country by securing the borders effectively,” said Godwin Umeaka, managing director, Coscharis Farms. Customs reacts When contacted, Nura Abdullahi, public relations officer, Seme Area Command of Nigeria Customs Service, told BusinessDay over the telephone, “Based on your story, there is lot we can question. How can we be sure of your story? Anyway, one of the biggest problems we face in Nigeria is the continued patronage of these smuggled items, in this case rice. Rice smuggling simply exports jobs from Nigeria to other countries.” Abdullahi said Customs was mounting campaigns to curtail smuggling activities along the Seme land border. “I must add that nowhere in the world would you find 100 percent blockage of smuggling across borders. We strive to reduce it to the barest minimum and I must say we are succeeding. Our warehouses are open to anyone, especially journalists who want to report about our activities. We have tonnes of seized smuggled rice,” he said. A source at the Customs headquarters, who does not want to be named because he is not authorised to comment on the matter in public, said there could be instances where, on humanitarian grounds, Customs officials may allow someone who has travelled to Benin Republic to come in with a bag or two of rice destined for domestic consumption. This, he said, is not smuggling per se. “In the last four to six months there has been drastic decrease in the quantity of rice smuggled into Nigeria. We have distributed some of these among Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps,” the source said.