FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange has received the approval of shareholders to raise N5billion fresh capital. The proposed capital raise which will be through a mix of Rights Issue and Public Offer is aimed at boosting its operations.
Shareholders who also were at the 6th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of FMDQ OTC Plc approved the plan by the Board of Directors to change its name to FMDQ Securities Exchange, a development that would broaden capital raising options for Nigerian corporates and government issuers.
With an average annual market turnover of about N124trillion ($560 billion) over the last four (4) years, FMDQ operates the largest securities exchange in Nigeria.
The approved name change simply involves removing the Over-The-Counter (OTC) tag which may have constrained its reach as Nigeria’s foremost debt capital, currencies and derivatives securities exchange.
Looking at the register of members, as shown in the directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2017, no shareholder other than the under-mentioned held more than 5percent of the issued share capital of the Company as at December 31, 2017.
The Central Bank of Nigeria holds 100million units or 15.61percent; Financial Markets Dealers Association (FMDA) holds 79.074million units or 12.34 percent; while NSE Consult Limited holds 41.666million units or 6.50percent.
In 2017, the Company invested in a new entity, FMDQ Clear Limited. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of FMDQ OTC Plc. FMDQ Clear Limited was established to operate a securities clearing and settlement system for the confirmation, facilitation, clearing and settlement of securities, trades and contracts in the capital and financial markets.
“The OTC Exchange will, in 2018, expand its technology market systems offering with the deployment of its Proprietary Market System, FMDQ Q-ex, in line with regulatory requirements and FMDQ’s aspirations of global competitiveness and operational excellence of the Nigerian financial markets,” said Bola Onadele. Koko, Managing Director/CEO, FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange.
He told shareholders that the full deployment FMDQ Q-ex shall be based on a phased delivery plan, with the Q-ex Clearing and Settlement System Solution being the first delivery to go-live.
“This solution will facilitate straight-through-processing capabilities for the clearing and settlement of sovereign fixed income transaction between market participants on the OTC Exchange’s platform. Extensive collaboration with and support from market stakeholders and financial market regulators were evident during 2017 in preparation for, and to ensure the success of, this much-needed market development initiative in 2018,” he further said.
Despite the recessionary trends which shaped activities for most of 2017, FMDQ delivered a good performance across all revenue lines. It recorded a commendable financial performance with total revenue of N2.57billion; a 25.94percent increase from N2.04billion in 2016.
Overall market activity levels have direct impact on FMDQ’s Transaction Fees revenue. For instance a look at most of its revenue lines in 2017 show Transaction Fees of N1.634billion against N1.381billion in 2016, up by 18.29percent. Bond Listing Fees of N190.868million against N164.725million in 2016 represents an increase of 15.87percent; and Commercial Paper Quotation Fees of N92.645million against N33.993million in 2016, represents an increase of 172.54percent.
The OTC Exchange’s total market turnover in the fixed income and currency (FIC) markets totaled N142.03trn in 2017, representing 25percent increase compared to the value recorded for the same period in 2016 (N113.66trillion).
The top three (3) contributors to market turnover were the Treasury Bills, Repos/Buy-backs and Foreign Exchange market segments, accounting for 42.48percent, 22.46percent and 14.85percent respectively of the value traded in the market. The OTC Exchange’s revenue diversification drive was a major factor that aided the sustained financial performance through the challenging market conditions of 2017, further reinforcing its role as Nigeria’s foremost debt capital, currency and derivatives OTC securities exchange.
As a result, the Company experienced an increase in the contribution of non-transaction fees to total revenue from 32.29percent in 2016 to 36percent in 2017. Non-transaction fees comprised revenue from bond/fund listings fees, commercial paper (CP) quotations fees, membership application fees, membership dues, interest income and technology services, amongst others.
In 2017, it admitted 37 commercial papers (CPs) series, alongside 10 bonds issues and 3 mutual funds. Eight (8) companies issued and quoted the 37 CPs, while 6 issuers listed 10 bonds on the OTC Exchange. The percentage contribution of the listings and quotations fees line to total revenue in 2017 stood at 11.37percent. FMDQ offers amongst other world-class services, an efficient platform for the registration, listing, quotation, noting, trading, order execution, and trade reporting of fixed income, currency and derivative products. Recently, Thomson Reuters, the world’s leading source of intelligent information for businesses and professionals, and FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange announced a strategic collaboration to deepen capacity to help drive liquidity and enhance the visibility of the Nigerian financial market to domestic and international investors. As part of the partnership, Thomson Reuters and FMDQ will work closely across their continental and global offices – including providing FMDQ access to Thomson Reuters’ Innovation Lab in Cape Town, South Africa – to drive innovation in FX, Fixed Income, Risk Management and the Financial Market. Sneha Shah, Managing Director for Africa at Thomson Reuters said, “Thomson Reuters has been investing in Nigeria and Africa for over 100 years, and has worked closely with FMDQ and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to support the development of the market over the years. FMDQ has been a key driver of many of the financial market innovations coming from Nigeria, and these are going to be important for other developing markets as well.”
“Nigeria is an economic giant of West Africa and the continent and it is vital that global companies who want to reach the fastest growing markets in the world have access to the opportunities here. We are excited about the opportunity this partnership brings to help drive sustainable long-term investment into Nigeria”, Shah said.
FMDQ, through effective collaboration with key financial markets stakeholders, provides a world-class market governance structure for the OTC markets within its purview: fixed Income (money, repo, commercial papers (CPs), treasury bills and bonds), currencies and derivatives; offering registration, listings & quotations (for bonds, CPs, treasury bills and funds), memberships, market connectivity, data and information, market regulation, noting and post-trade services to the various stakeholders within its markets.
FMDQ was registered by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Nigeria, in 2012, and launched on to the Nigerian financial market in 2013.
Leveraging four (4) broad membership categories – Dealing, Associate, Registration and Affiliate Members, FMDQ’s vision is to be “number 1” in Africa in the fixed income and Currency markets by 2019.
FMDQ mission is to empower the financial markets to be innovative and credible, in support of the Nigerian economy, is championing the advancement of its markets through the introduction of innovative products and the institutionalisation of robust market architecture.
It currently uniquely combines the functions of a securities exchange – providing a platform for businesses and governments to seamlessly raise capital, as well as organising and deepening the markets – and a self-regulatory organisation – responsible for regulating the activities of its Members in the markets under its governance.  IHEANYI NWACHUKWU 