When the stock price of Nigerian Breweries fell below N125 earlier in May, shareholders didn’t just lose billions that day; they also lost a symbolic status. For the fourth time since 2015, Nigerian Breweries is no longer a part of the select few Nigerian publicly listed companies with a market capitalization in excess of N1 trillion.  The surviving members of this club as at Friday, 13 July are GTBank (N1.16 trn), Nestle (N1.21 trn) and Dangote (N3.86 trn). Zenith Bank which was briefly a member of the N1 trillion group in early 2018 has also been pushed out of the exclusive club by market bears after its share price fell below N32 back in March.  The elite club is currently made up of one bank, one consumer goods Company and one industrial firm which shows that the successes of the companies are not concentrated within one industry.  The dramatic fall in the share price of Nigerian Breweries began around a year ago, after the stock hit a record high of N193 per share in August 2017, profit taking induced gravity into the price level of the stock and by year end, NB shares had fallen to N134 per share, a drop of around 30.6 percent.  Despite profit growth of 16.2 percent in 2017 from its 2016 level, it was still not enough to improve investor sentiment in the blue chip company as competition tightened within the brewery space in the past year with the introduction of Budweiser by AB-InBev, owners of International Breweries (IB).  “We revise our estimates for NB post increased beer pricing and negative volume growth in 1Q18. We now forecast that NB will report an 11.2% decline in volume in 2018 and a 3.0% decline in 2019, thereby losing market share. NB’s pricing strategy and IB’s incursion into Lagos and the southwest remain a concern. NB’s strategy of defending market share has clearly not worked since 2012 and it is difficult to see how IB’s advance can be stalled, especially with IB continuing to offer quality brands at discounted prices,” said Adedayo Ayeni, an analyst at Renaissance Capital, in a July 3 note.  As at Friday, 13 July, the market capitalization of Nigerian Breweries was N879.65 billion which still keeps the firm among the largest publicly listed companies in Nigeria but N130 billion short of the N1 trillion mark.  If the bearish sentiment continues, it is not unlikely that GTBank and Nestle will also exit the N1 trillion club sometime later this year leaving Dangote Cement to reign supreme. Dangote Cement which is Nigeria’s largest listed firm boasts more than 3 times the market capitalization of Nestle which the second largest company in Nigeria by market capitalization. Interestingly, Dangote Cement is larger than the market cap of Nestle, GTBank and Nigerian Breweries combined today.  Analysts expect that investors will probably be net sellers in the equity market up until the general elections in 2019. Market sentiment is expected to improve after the successful close of the election which should help support market prices in 2019. This means that the return of Nigerian Breweries to the elite N1trn club could be delayed till at least mid-next year. With inflation still at double-digits, it is unlikely that profit margin in the company will rise rapidly enough to provide fundamental support for higher prices this year. Nigerian Breweries Plc. is the largest brewing company in Nigeria with products ranging from Star, Gulder, Legend Extra Stout, Maltina and Malta. These products are mainly sold in Nigeria and other neighbouring countries. Nigeria Breweries engages in the brewing and marketing of Lager beer, Stout and non-alcoholic malt drinks and the bottling of the Schweppes range of soft drinks and Crush Orange.