Following the success of Team Nigeria at the First Global Robot Olympic challenge in the United States last year, the China Association of Science and technology has invited three secondary school students to represent Nigeria at the World Adolescent Robotics Competition in China, this July 2018. The students, Tawakalitu Giwa, Oluwaseun Omotayo and Ayomide Adetunji were members of Team Nigeria to the First Global Robotic Olympics in Washington DC, U.S., in 2017, which was sponsored by Aramex and Doculand Nigeria. The students were picked based on their outstanding performance at the First Global Robotic Olympics where Nigeria placed 25th out of the 163 teams from 157 countries, emerging third of the 41 African countries in attendance. In a similar development, five students will be representing Nigeria at the next First Global Robotic Olympics coming up in Mexico City this August. This year, they will be competing with over 190 other teams from around the world. Founded by philanthropic inventor Dean Kamen to inspire a passion for science and technology leadership and innovation among the world’s more than two billion youths, FIRST Global provides the framework for an Olympics-style robotics event that drives home the importance of obtaining the science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) skills needed by future leaders to overcome the greatest challenges facing our world – today and tomorrow. The other students from the team will be attending the Pan African robotic completion in Senegal on the 25th of July 2018. Remi Willoughby, National coordinator of the program and CEO, Roboglobal Educational Consulting said, ‘without any doubt Nigeria is slowly but gradually establishing herself on the map of technology developed nations. This may not be presently evident, however, it is an indication that progress is being made.’ According to her, ‘we have the right talents to compete successfully on the global stage and move Nigeria to a technology advanced nation, but we need the right support and encouragement, and to do this, we need to quickly address the evident deficit in science, technology, engineering and mathematics in our educational system.’ Faisal Jarmakani, managing director, Aramex and Doculand Nigeria and co-sponsor of the First Global project in Nigeria, said, ‘These children are building the foundation blocks for a technology advanced nation and in the next few years will become global icons paving the way for other children to follow. If they keep getting the right support and encouragement, without any doubt, we will soon join other countries of the world where science and technology have become the backbone of their economic development.’ Jarmakani hinted that the decision to co-sponsor this new set of students for the next robotics Olympics in Mexico with his brother Omar Jarmakani, is based on the need to encourage the youth to embrace technology and robotics. In April this year, Yemi Osinbajo, Vice President of Nigeria praised the effort of Team Nigeria to the First Global Robotic Olympics for their outstanding performance at the challenge. He made the commendation while receiving the six-member team, their project Director, Mentor and sponsors at the Aso Villa, Abuja. Nigeria and Gabon are the only African countries invited to China’s World Adolescent Robotics Competition.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 