The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) on Tuesday retained the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 percent to curb inflationary pressures anticipated with election spending but seemed to embrace a new form of quantitative easing (QE) by urging large corporates to issue commercial paper notes, which the CBN may then buy to boost credit to the real economy at lower rates.
Quantitative easing (QE) is an unconventional monetary policy in which a central bank purchases government securities or other securities from the market in order to lower interest rates, increase the money supply and ultimately stimulate the economy.
Commercial papers are unsecured, debt instruments issued by firms, for not more than 275 days, specifically to raise funds to meet short-term obligations.
“In order to achieve the objective of lowering the interest rates, particularly to the priority sectors (Manufacturing and Agriculture), we would encourage large corporates to issues commercial paper notes in the market,” Governor Godwin Emefiele told reporters on Tuesday in the capital, Abuja.
Emefiele said the CBN may if need be then buy those instruments to compliment the efforts of the deposit money banks, adding that the details of the framework are being worked out by the Banking supervision and monetary policy department and research and would be released very soon.
“The MPC deliberated extensively on what can be done to encourage banks to increase credit, because from the numbers we looked at during the main meeting, MPC was concerned that credit to the economy was sliding. Hence, there was need to incentivise the Deposit Money Banks to be able to increase credit to the real sector,” Emefiele said.
Credit to the private sector contracted by 0.16 per cent in April 2018, compared to the provisional annual growth benchmark of 5.64 percent.
Reacting to the development, Ayodeji Ebo, managing director, Afrinvest Securities Limited said, “We expect to see more avalanche of commercial papers before the end of 2018 due to the lower yield environment.”
Consequently, he said this will lower the finance cost of the companies that take advantage of this opportunity and provides attractive investment opportunities for investors seeking for alpha.
However, this Ebo said this may have negative impact on banks’ interest income as banks may find it challenging to create further risk assets amidst increasing choppy business environment.
“This will be positive for the economy in the medium to long term as companies’ margins may improve translating to greater chances of survival that is business continuity,” Ebo said in an emailed response to BusinessDay.
The CBN also maintained the asymmetric corridor at +200 and -500 basis points around the MPR; retained the Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) and Liquidity Ratio (LR) at 22.50 percent and 30 percent respectively.
“Inflation forecasts point to further moderation,” but pre- election spending could boost aggregate demand, Emefiele said, calling for coordinated fiscal and monetary measures to stem the build-up of price pressures.
Out of the 10 member committee who attended the meeting, seven members voted to retain the monetary policy rate at 14 percent. Two members however voted to increase the MPR (monetary policy rate) by 50 basis points, one member voted to cut it by 25 basis points.
“Now what we are going to see is stunted growth all the way to the election. External vulnerabilities will begin to increase because there will be outflows,” Bismarck Rewane, managing director/Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited said.
Nigeria’s (inflation) year-on-year slowed marginally to 11.23 percent in June from 11.61 percent the previous month, but still remains well above the 6-9 percent preferred band.
Tilewa Adebajo, economic expert, said, “ I think the central bank has already put itself in a difficult situation of saying that until they see single digit inflation at 9 percent they are not going to react which I think is rather unfortunate.”
Speaking further he said, “we are not growing our economy and the impact of that is that if you can see what is happening with all these policies is that despite the fact that we have a stable exchange rate there is problems with lending to the real sector which obviously is manifesting itself now and the central bank obviously is trying to find more innovative ways of providing single digit financing by looking at some innovative structures of leasing some sort of value on the CRR of banks and the viability of investing in some sort of commercial paper which I don’t think central bank should do.”  Hope Moses-Ashike, Onyinye Nwachukwu, Endurance Okafor, Bunmi Bailey, Oluwatosin Dokunmu & Abdullateef Eniola-Giwa 