Emerging research shows that even the simple presence of a cellphone — not to mention its glowing screen and constant beeps — interrupts our ability to connect. In one online survey, my colleagues and I found that nearly 9 out of 10 people say that at least once a week, their friends or family stop paying attention to them in favor of something happening on their digital devices. Too many of us are waiting for social norms to naturally evolve and catch up, but they won’t. Norms develop when a critical mass of people begin to confront those who violate them. So how can we accelerate necessary change in digital etiquette, especially in the workplace? It starts with speaking up. Here are a few ways to begin the process: DISCUSS THE DATA. If you’re trying to change norms in a group, you might begin by sharing the “why.” Share studies like the one cited above. If people aren’t convinced about the impact on social connection, show them the evidence; the presence of a cellphone impairs productivity too. MAKE IT PERSONAL. Wait until you’re not feeling diminished, and they won’t feel shamed. Then say something like, “I’ve been noticing that I feel much different about my conversations with people when I or they are semi-distracted by technology. I’d like to both make a commitment to you and ask for a commitment from you. When I’m talking with you, I want to give you my full attention. And I’d like to ask for the same. And if it’s not a good time for you to focus completely, I’ll wait until it works for you to do that. Would that work for you?” HOLD THE BOUNDARY. Now comes the hard part. You have to adhere to the norm, and speak up when others cross it. That means that if you sneak a peek at a device in a way you agreed not to, own up to it. And the instant you see others do the same, be prepared with a nonpunitive but crystal-clear acknowledgment of the violation. While there are great benefits to today’s technology, they should not trump social norms of respect, courtesy and politeness. (Joseph Grenny is a best-selling author and keynote speaker. Kelly Andrews is a master trainer and client coach at VitalSmarts.) 