Several months after putting a stop to its Pay on Delivery (POD) option as a result of lack of confidence in the system, Konga, one of Nigeria’s largest e-commerce platforms has revealed plans to re-launch PoD on the 1st of August 2018. At the time of POD suspension by Konga, other e-commerce platforms in Nigeria  also either stopped or limited transactions that can be carried out online with the payment on delivery option. The company revealed that the payment option will first be made available to its Lagos based shoppers before extending the service to other states from the 1st of September 2018. This development is coming after Konga reportedly achieved same day delivery of approximately 97 percent of product orders in major cities in the last 30 days. Confirming the development, Nick Imudia, CEO Konga Online, disclosed that Payment On Delivery was suspended when erstwhile owners – Naspers and AB Kinnevik were in discussions before the acquisition of the business by the Zinox Group. ‘We have taken our time to restructure, improve our technology and capacity in terms of our own staff and logistics to meet customers’ expectations. We have invested substantially in our logistics arm, K-Express culminating in the acquisition of new line-haul trucks, delivery vans and motor bikes to meet the commitments of not just POD, but also achieve a minimum of 85 percent same day delivery of major products categories by July 2019 across the nation as mandated by the Board of Konga. ‘Someone must make it happen, and we have decided to take the bull by the horns with new mega warehousing and storage facilities being opened across the country with best in class technologies,’ he affirmed. Industry watchers say this is a step in the right direction, as payment on delivery remains a favourable option for most Nigerian consumers, and accounts for over 70 percent of online sales in the country. Imudia also stated that Konga is expanding its retail network as promised by the company’s management, with a target of 100 stores before the end of 2019 but with a long-term ambition of achieving 774 stores by 2022. ‘Considering Nigeria’s deficient payment system, Konga customers have several payment and delivery options. This will go a long way to excite our customers and expand the numerous order fulfillment channels available to our customers. ‘In addition to pre-payment and payment on delivery, you have the additional option of ordering online to pay and collect from the nearest Konga retail store. Our customers can also walk into any of our stores nationwide and with the help of our staff, order products we do not have in store, then pay and collect when it is delivered at the store or we deliver it at their door-steps. At Konga, we consider the challenges of our market and simplify things for our customers. No other e-commerce company offers these delivery and payment options on the continent,’ he said. Widely renowned for genuine products, secure payment options and swift delivery, Konga is keen to continue its quest revolutionize the e-commerce space in Nigeria and beyond.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 