Ten-year-old Munachi Mbonu, a multi-talented author, recently launched two books in Lagos titled ‘Concealed’ and ‘Chidubem: A Child of Destiny’. Munachi, who started writing at the age of seven, says her aspiration is to become a surgeon and a writer because she is interested in medicine and writing books. She says she was inspired by her mum. “She likes us to do something all the time. She tells us to read and do review of the book. Before I started writing, I used to sketch a picture and write short story behind it,” she says. At the launch of her two books, Munachi encouraged the young ones like herself to be whatever they want to be because their destiny is in their hands. The books were products of leisurely exercises by the Year Six pupil of Grande Oakbridge Montessori School, Osapa London, Lekki, which she wrote to entertain her cousins until her mother, Ifeoma, urged her to seek a wider audience. Munachi said ‘Concealed’, centred on a group of young friends in school, was inspired by TV drama series, Friends, while ‘Chidubem’, which features a boy who relocated from the village to the city, was influenced by her interactions with her cousins who had similar experience. Ifeoma Mbonu, mother of the author, said she got her a laptop at the age of five, so she would sketch something and write a story behind it and everybody would laugh because it was hilarious. “She is a multi-talented child. Whatever she sets her mind to, she can achieve. She has been writing since the age of seven. When they are at home and are not doing anything, I make them to read and do books review for me. The boys will just sleep off because reading is boring to them. This is how she developed interest for her own book. I programme her activities, weekend she does games and extra activities, school time is school and we also make out time to read,” said Mbonu. She urged parents to invest in their children first before investing for them because in every child there is always a talent. Toni Kan, popular writer and poet, who was the guest of honour at the launch, disclosed that he started writing at age 11 and urged Munachi’s parents to support her in her chosen passion for writing. Kan shared how he ended up studying English at the University of Jos after three failures to get in for Medicine, adding that his love for writing had taken him all over the world. “I wanted to study Medicine at the University of Jos. I was admitted for Chemistry the first time, then Biochemistry, then Microbiology. My uncle then asked what I wanted to do, and I opted for English. In the first year, we had a reading list of 48 books. I had read 47 of them,” he said. “I want to say to Mum and Dad, this girl is doing something great; encourage her. I have travelled all over the world but I have never bought a ticket in my life. I get invitations from people because of my books,” he said.