The Public Service Institute of Nigeria (PSIN), Nigeria Communication Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) Ltd. and Sawtel Technological Ltd. have signed a tripartite agreement for the implementation of e-learning management system for both civil and public servants in Nigeria. This agreement, when implemented would see public sector productivity boosted by improving their skillset using Information Communication Technology (ICT). According to Abdul-Ganiyu Obatoyinbo, institute administrator, PSIN, ICT is of great importance in manpower development. He said that the agreement will see the institute deploying ICT to train civil servant simultaneously regardless of their location using cutting edge technologies and broadband to achieve this objective. ‘It is a known fact that without ICT in today’s world you cannot make an impact. Public service has the mandate of training and we cannot achieve that without ICT. We’ll definitely need ICT infrastructure to execute these trainings because we cannot bring everybody here physically. But we’re here to achieve the target that we want to in all our economic industries which includes the ease of doing business. ICT is key, even the strategic plan approved by the Federal Executive Council (FEC) as projected by the government, shows that ICT is the central key,’ Obatoyinbo said. He expressed that ‘by the time this infrastructure is in place in about six weeks we should start seeing some immediate regulation. I am confident that by the time the e-business rating is carried out under the next assessment Nigeria would have risen up to about 50 – 60 ranges. That only happens when capacity building is in place because when you train a staff you get the results.’ Impressed with the landmark achievement, Abimbola Alele, the managing director of NIGCOMSAT, revealed NIGCOMSAT’s willingness to partner with PSIN and Sawtel to take this institute to greater height. ‘I congratulate you because you are expanding the horizons of not just only the civil servants but the military, paramilitary and so many other agencies that want to push governance, and you are utilizing the best instrument available right now globally; ICT, to train them because ICT is currently the main driver in the world today. You are not only being ICT compliant but you are also saving lives of people travelling long distance to come here, and also saving government resources because people would pay per diem to come here but with this agreement people can remain at their location, receive the same content, same information for training and sit for exams simultaneously,’ she added. On the importance of such agreement, Samson Osagie, executive director, marketing NIGCOMSAT noted that ‘the tripartite agreement is all about realization of the policy objectives of the ICT roadmap in Nigeria. Our contribution is to assist in developing the capacity of the public civil servants in Nigeria through our critical ICT infrastructure. We would provide the critical infrastructure through the optimization of satellite services to the MDAs. This is through public and private partnership, the private which is SAWTEL and PSIN public institutions to create a synergy that is required to boost the productivity of civil servants.’ Mike Amanyi, CEO, Sawtel Technologies said, ‘the organization brings a multi-tenant learning management system that would enable PSIN to deliver training concurrently to as many as over a million users globally to the partnership. Having been in the business of delivering eLearning solution for years, this tripartite agreement will change the narrative of capacity building of the public sector space in the country.’ On the nature of the agreement, Mike added that ‘the emphasis of this agreement is that each of the party involved would make contribution to achieving this aim. Sawtel as a private company would provide the software platform for public service to access the training program and modules for the development of their capacity, while Nigcomsat as a satellite company would be providing the satellite and broadband services through which that service can be assessed, while the Public Service Institute of Nigeria is to provide the content. This is the thrust of the agreement.’ Leveraging the internet and ICT solutions, industry watchers have lauded this move as a way to encourage electronic learning and capacity building. As the country digitizes, there is need to deploy various ICT platforms and solutions to encourage people to build up their capacity which is in line with the economic agenda of the government.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 