While many reactions have followed the recent unveiling of Nigeria Air, the national carrier of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, by Hadi Sirika, minister of state for aviation at the Farnborough International Airshow in London, the gains seem to outweigh the fears, especially in boosting tourism development. Currently, France, Spain, USA, UK, and even UAE, which are among top 10 international destinations across the world, rely heavily on their national carriers to grow tourists traffic into their countries.
In Africa, burgeoning destinations such as South Africa, Kenya, Egypt, Rwanda are possible because of an efficient national carrier that connect passengers seamlessly to the destinations. Lately, Ethiopia is taking advantage of the largest connectivity of Ethiopian Airline from Africa to the world to boost its tourism, while South Africa, which is an unprofitable route to most international airlines, is 80 percent accessible through South African Airways, the national carrier.
Despite its steep location on the continent, South Africa welcomed 10.29 million foreign tourists in 2017, a figure that is up only by 2 percent over 2016. However, the feat was possible with South African Airways, which often ailed but bailed out by the government because the absence of a national carrier means heavy drop in tourists’ traffic and revenue from tourism and related businesses.
The intrigue is that South African Airways flew over 8 million visitors from African countries in 2017, and above that figure from her citizens who toured within the country for tourism.
“Our steep location on the continent puts us on a tight corner in terms of flight competitiveness. But because we are focused on growing tourism traffic into our country, South African Airways is there to bridge the gap and offer global tourists better deals on the route, which other airlines cannot considering the profit margin of flying on that route,” Derek Hanekom, minister of tourism, South Africa, explained in support of national carrier.
As well, Ethiopian destinations hosted over 918,010 tourists in 2017, representing a 5.7 percent increase over the 868,780 registered in 2016. As well, it has improved on its domestic tourism front by sustaining three flights daily across its 20 airports to domestic routes where most tourists visit.
The growing number of tourists in Ethiopia, which is better known for aviation traffic and not tourism, is as a result of more international routes opened by Ethiopian Airlines (ET), the national carrier of Ethiopia.
With a view to boost tourist arrivals in Ethiopia and increase ET’s domestic and international routes, Addis Ababa Bole International Airport is undergoing expansion that will enable it to significantly increase its annual passenger handling capacity.
Looking Kenya, another East African tourism powerhouse, the country hosted over 1,474,671 visitors in 2017 and also earned $1.2 billion, a 20 percent growth from $989 million the previous year despite a prolonged and tense electioneering period.
However, Najib Balala, the country’s minister of tourism, commended Kenya Airways, the national carrier for the feat, especially opening route in the US, its leading market with 114,507 arrivals, about 17 percent growth.
Rwanda, a surprise on the continent, is pushing to become the conference hub of not only East Africa but the entire continent with the strengthening of RwandAir, which besides its Kigali main hub has created a hub for the West African market in Benin Republic, after Ethiopian Airline’s hub in Lome, Togo.
British visitors grew 21 percent in 2017 to “over 16,000,” of a total 1.2 million tourist arrivals.
Since launching more routes, among which is a thrice-weekly direct flight last year between London Gatwick and Kigali, RwandAir has flown over 16,000 British visitors and welcomed 1.2 million global visitors in 2017 to several conferences and to its tourism attractions, especially capital, as one of the reasons behind the growth.
The country is best-known for its 480-strong mountain gorilla population, for which people travel from all over the world to see, paying £1,300 for a permit to enter the Volcanoes National Park with a guide to track down the roaming animals.
“We sell 96 gorilla permits a day, each gorilla permit costs $1,500, that means we make more than $50 million a year,” Clare Akamanzi, chief executive of the Rwanda Development Fund, said.
With a national carrier in place, which is expected to be private sector driven and just 5 percent government equity, tourism stakeholders across the country think that Nigeria can attract more tourists who will be lured by the competitiveness and seamless travel on Nigeria Air.
“We hardly host up to five million tourists a year, and 10 percent of our population about 18 million can travel within if there are cheaper flights,” Magnus Idimi, a tourism consultant said.
They also insisted that domestic travel would be greatly boosted by the domestic services of the national carrier to hinterland and destinations most operating domestic airlines dare not fly to for reasons of unprofitability and safety.
“The national carrier will among other gains be a boost to domestic tourism. It will open up some routes within the country and encourage traffic to them as well,” Ikechi Uko, African tourism and aviation expert, said.