Among other bodies and professional arms, the Ikeja Golf Club has given their backing and support to Eddie Efekoha, a top notch golfer, to his tenure as the 49th president and chairman of Council of the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN). The golfers, at a dinner organized in honour of their Efekoha at the Ikeja Golf Club to crown his investiture as CIIN President, said they were not surprised at his achievement having found in him, a focused and committed personality, even in the golf course. Bola Temowo, captain, Ikeja Golf Club said Efekoha is a committed golfer whose passion and love for the game is remarkable, assuring the club’s support throughout his tenure. Meanwhile at the CIIN investiture ceremony held in Lagos, Efekoha said the theme of his presidency shall be ‘Advancing Insurance Education and Professionalism’.  He said the programmes to be executed under the theme have been carefully selected while being guided by the doctrine of continuity, which entails concluding on-going positive projects and policies by successive leaderships in addition to embarking on new projects and plans.  One of the key projects he plan to embark on is Infrastructural Development at the College of Insurance. “The Institute has achieved so much infrastructural development at the College of Insurance and Financial Management Studies within a short time. We have to sustain the tempo to make the College the pride of our efforts. It is against this background that we have chosen to commence work on the construction of the Auditorium, complete on-going development of the sporting facilities and furnishing of the Rector’s lodge. These will be the major projects at the College during my tenure, while not neglecting all other areas of need.” On advancing insurance education, Efekoha said this will be achieved through making the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria Examination more accessible and affordable for students;  promoting the emergence of a new generation of insurance professionals; reviewing the Insurance Textbook for Secondary Schools; Institution of Best Graduating Insurance students Awards in accredited Institutions;” Others include equipping accredited insurance departments in Tertiary Institutions; re-invigorating and continuing existing programmes on Insurance Awareness; accreditation and establishment of new Insurance Programmes/ Department in Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria, example University of Lagos – MSC Risk Management, B.Sc. Insurance in Babcock University, University of Jos amongst others. – Insurance Lectures & Workshops. Efekoha further stated that other areas of focus during his tenure will be professional development through collaboration with National Insurance Commission and other arms of the industry to enhance post-qualification development of practitioners; continuous development of the manpower, process and physical structure of our Institute to ensure we are responsive and efficient; and Sustain established working relationship with the CII London, among others.  