It is events galore for Trace TV after the media/entertainment brand just hosted the historic visit by the French President, Emmanuel Macron to the New African Shrine. With the dust of the Macron charm yet to settle, the company is rolling out the red carpets again for what promises to be an iconic theatrical performance by Nigeria’s raving Rapper Falz to be held at Terra Kulture on the 13th of July.  The Falz show is the fourth in the Trace Live series that has in the past hosted the likes of Omawunmi, Flavour and Adekunle Gold with each acoustic display redefining the landscape of Live Music in Nigeria and also re-casting the said Acts in brilliant forms. First was Omawumi who reasserted herself as a musical phenomenon at the maiden edition.Then Flavour rehashed highlife with a dash of sultry pop to the cheering of a very discerning crowd.Adekunle Gold took it a notch by thrilling the audience with his new album, About 30 which has been critically-acclaimed. Trace Live with Falz would continue this trajectory with the Rapper’s insightful hit This is Nigeria that has gotten the whole country wagging for its pungent criticism of the Nigerian state. TRACE LIVE, is a new landmark in live music that highlights only the best blend of vocals and musical instruments. The show which spotlights one artist and a band is the biggest live performance show from TRACE TV, BolanleAustin Peters and Cabal Entertainment. Folarin Falana popularly known as Falzthebahdguy is one of Nigeria’s most sensational rapper who has over the years, swayed us with dynamic sounds across the spectrums of the Afro Hip-Hop genre. He is arguably one of the most intriguing acts that have sprung up in recent times as his ability to deliver 16 bars with strong punchlines and an infusion of impressionism blows away audiences.  Falz, gained recognition from his very first release, “Marry Me” which featured vocals from Poe and Yemi Alade. He has moved to become a highly acclaimed artist with jams like Ello Bae, Jamb question, Soldier, La fete and so much more. Falz is also an adored household name with his feature on the TV series, Jenifas dairies where he plays the role of “Segun Sege”. His ability to adopt dual personalities puts him in a league of his own. He is much admired for his 3 albums and EP, which includes Wazup Guy, Stories That Touch, 27, and Chemistry featuring Simi. Falz currently owns his independent record label called Bahd Guys Records. He has only scratched the surface as there is more to come from his stables. Join the groove as we exploit the musical story of Folarin Falana “On Becoming Falzthebahdguy” on Friday, 13th July, 2018 at the Terra Kulture Arena in Lagos, Nigeria. TRACE Live with Falz will give the public a possibility to be part of a unique live experience with an opportunity to purchase tickets here or a chance to win tickets via our social media page here 