Heineken Lokpobiri, Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Agriculture has said emphasised the need for farmers in the country to embrace innovative agric to boost food production and achieve food security for Nigeria. Lokpobiri made the assertion when he received a delegation from the Africa-Asia Rural Development Organisation (AARDO) led by Wassfi Hassan El Sreihin, secretary general of the Organisation in his office recently. The minister of state said that the country’s food production gap has continued to exist owing to smallholder farmers traditional methods of farming. “The only way we can feed ourselves is for us to develop our capacity, embrace modern farming technology and technics so that we will continue to enjoy high productivity, not the subsistent farming we are used to,” Lokpobiri said in a statement made available to BusinessDay. He expressed delight that the Federal Government has embarked on efforts to redress the situation through policies and infrastructural development of rural communities. “Nigeria is a country where we are basically being fed by the rural dwellers. If rural development is not given priority, and already studies have shown that there is urban migration because of lack of development in the rural areas, the cities would soon be over crowded,” he said. “Land to farm is in the rural areas and if those people in the rural areas are empowered through capacity building, through technology transfer to be able to stay there and continue to cultivate in agriculture, poverty would be reduced, there will be less crime, and there will be less pressure on the limited amenities that we find in the urban areas,” he further said. According to him, the only difference between the agricultural system in Africa and those of the advanced economies of the world is the use and deployment of technologically advanced equipment by the advanced economies. While comparing between the Nigeria climate and that of the Latin American countries, which he noted are basically the same, the minister said “because sometimes we do not want to be relevant in techniques, the yield over there could be 20 tons while here it could be 2 tons. This is basically because of the way we plan and the way we manage our cropping system.” He noted that Nigeria is at the verge of transiting from subsistent agriculture to sustainable agro economy, saying that Nigeria is currently striving to diversify from oil-based based economy to an agric-based one through emphasis on technology and modernised farming. 