Traditional rulers from across the length and breadth of Nigeria on Thursday were among dignitaries that graced the BusinessDay 2018 State Competitiveness and Good Governance Awards.
They include the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; the Emir of Katagun, Umar Kabir and the Emir of Misau, Ahmed Suleiman and a representative of the Emir of Bauchi, Galadima Saidu.
The event which took place at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja also attracted personalities from all walks of life.
BusinessDay publisher/chief executive officer Frank Aigbogun, decried states’ over-reliance on Federal allocation, even as he called on states to diversify their economies to increase their Internally Generated Revenue (IGR).
Speaking on Thursday at the event, Aigbogun stressed the need for states to harness their available resources.
This, he submitted, will end the monthly custom of state executives looking up to the Ministry of Finance, Abuja, for federal allocation. Some of the awardees include Governor Nyesom Wike (Rivers State) who won the Overall Best Governor of the Year; even as Governors Ibrahim Dankwabo of Gombe and Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State clinched Best Performing Governor North and South respectively.
Other award categories and their winners include: Promotion of Made in Nigerian Goods (Abia), Sports Development (Akwa Ibom), Agriculture Development (Anambra), Tourism Development (Bauchi) and Healthcare Development (Taraba).
Others are: Rural Urban Infrastructure Development (Enugu, Nasarawa, Kwara), Transparency in Governance (Edo and Jigawa), Peace and Security (Kogi and Sokoto) as well as Education Reforms and Development (Ondo and Kaduna).
Citing the latest State of the State report published by BusinessDay Research and Intelligence Unit (BRIU), Aigbogun said: “The IGR of the 36 sub national governments rose by 12% from N831.19 billion in 2016 to N931.23 billion in 2017. Twenty-three States grew their IGR above the national average of 12%. This is a laudable development.
“Indeed Nigeria is a country that is undoubtedly blessed with significant mineral, agricultural, natural and human resources. Each State has comparative advantage in multiple areas, from agriculture to minerals where there is increased and sustained competitiveness through economic development and growth. It opens up doors to self-sufficiency in the areas of comparative strengths and bilateral trade can also be achieved with other States in the area where there is need for partnerships.
“Each State is naturally endowed with mineral, agricultural and human resources. In the area of human capital, we are 190 million – strong population with over 50% of the demography under the age of 30. Where each State government fully harnesses and optimises the resources available at their disposal, competitiveness and good governance is the result.”
The publisher of BusinessDay explained that the event was organised to celebrate governors who have distinguished themselves in all spheres of their states’ economies.
He disclosed that in selecting the awardees both quantitative and qualitative parameters such as active and well informed state government website, documents reflecting that the respective state governments transactions are executed through e-governance, openness and publication of state financials were adopted.  TONY AILEMEN, KEHINDE AKINTOLA, OWEDE AGBAJILEKE & JAMES KWEN