Members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Thursday stormed the National Assembly to register their grievances over the alleged attack on the Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose by security operatives.  They are protesting against the rising killings across the country.  The development comes as the PDP Caucus in the Senate has called on the Federal Government to investigate the invasion of the Government House and bring the perpetrators to book.  Led by the party National Chairman, Uche Secondus, members of the party explained that they decided to storm the National Assembly because it represents the hope and aspirations of Nigerians.  They called on the lawmakers to quickly intervene and examine through their oversight function on the executive arm of government particularly on its excesses and assault on democracy.  The party members carried placards with various inscriptions like: ‘Enough of Political Tyranny’, ‘Nigeria is sliding into one party system’ ‘Buhari stop killings’ among others.  Addressing the crowd, Secondus emphasised that the party was reliably informed that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and some security agencies have perfected plans to rig the election in Ekiti.  “That is why Ekiti today has been militarized and over policed with 30,000 policemen and women.  The citizens of Ekiti are afraid, they are traumatized, they are harassed and they are being prevented not to come out from their homes. They arrest members of our party and citizens of Ekiti.  “There was a civilian coup d’etat. The Ekiti Government House was sealed.  The Governor was brutalized. This development is an eyesore to democracy. We came first to National Assembly because you represent democracy and the hope and aspirations of Nigerians.  “This is the seat of democracy where all Nigerians elected are gathered together to discuss national issues.  We believe that we should register our protest to National Assembly to quickly intervene, query, examine through your oversight function on the executive arm of government particularly on their excesses, assault on democracy with the security operatives and Independent National Electoral Commission.  “We also call on the international community to see and watch what is happening in Ekiti if this is the type of election that APC and INEC want  to conduct in Ekiti. By this, the 2019 general elections is under threat. And we believe that if they continue in this manner and rig the poll, then  there will be nothing like 2019 elections,” he said.  Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who received the protesters said that the peaceful protest is within the context of democracy, adding that democracy is about free speech.  Also on Thursday, the PDP Senate Caucus has called on the Federal Government to probe Wednesday’s attack on the Ekiti State Governor and bring the culprits to book.  The Caucus also said some of its members had been delegated to embark on a fact-finding mission to the state.  Speaking to journalists after an emergency meeting in Abuja, Chairman of the caucus, Godswill Akpabio, said: “We received the news yesterday of the unfortunate incident that occurred in Ekiti State where the governor of the state was seen in collar brace, alleging that he was beaten by security agencies. As a caucus, we believe that this kind of incident needs to be investigated very thoroughly.  “While we condemn any attack on a sitting governor as a total rape of the Constitution. Because it violates the immunity clause in the Constitution, we call on the Federal Government to immediately set up a judicial commission of enquiry to investigate the incident in the state, involving Governor Ayo Fayose, in order to ensure that we get to the root of it. And if the incident was found to be true, as it was shown on television, then the culprits should be brought to book. Nigerians and the international community will be excited to know.  “Another issue that bothers us is the fact on Saturday, the election is billed to happen in Ekiti State. This for us is a litmus test for the 2019 general elections. So, we are calling on INEC and security agencies to remain impartial and ensure that every vote counts.” 