WHAT NEXT, COACH? : BUSINESS STRUCTURE 101 What Next, Coach? A business and strategy firm that provides viable business solutions for Small and medium Enterprises owners held its maiden workshop tagged Business structure 101 on the 30th of June 2018.   Business Structure 101 served as an avenue to add value to small and medium enterprises run by full time business owners that have been operational for at least 2 years. The growth of Small and Medium scale enterprises in Nigeria has been hampered deeply by the appalling state of infrastructure.  It leaves entrepreneurs with no choice than to cope without  access to basic amenities which in turn, contributes to the high cost of running businesses in the country. To mention a few, the lack of access to funds, power supply and good roads show that SMEs  are conditioned to sort for alternatives in an already deficient system. The business structure 101 workshop was held in a conducive, interactive and engaging environment where participants were given the opportunity to learn key elements every business requires to achieve a sustainable structure and effective strategy that will perpetuate sustainability both in the . This was achieved using a detailed online template provided by What Next, Coach?.  The entrepreneurs discovered how to utilize basic tech resources to boost efficiency and ways to attract quality staff. The SMEs present at the workshop developed a broader vision for their businesses and a realistic means to actualize this. Stephanie Onwunali, Founder and Chief Experience Officer of What Next, Coach?  tells BusinessDay that “unlike the UK, small and medium enterprises in Nigeria experience very minimal growth.”  On that account, What Next, Coach? Is dedicated to assisting SMEs  “come out of the noise with a chance to make action”.  The  Business Structure 101 workshop  provided   business owners present with blueprints poised to enable proper business structure In Stephanie’s words “success is not in quantity but in quality” and this is why What Next Coach is dedicated to redefining the needs of Nigerian businesses. 