An ally of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, has emerged as the elected chairman of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kano state. Abdullahi Abbas, who is the current Commissioner for Special Duties in the state, is a cousin of Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, won the exhausted seat with 2,982 votes to defeat Mohammad Shehu with 490 votes. Shehu Maigari, Ibrahim Sarki, Sharu Ahmed Adam and Hajiya Habiba ‘Yardalla emerged as Deputy Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and Woman Leader respectively. Announcing the result on yesterday (Sunday) Morning, Chairman of the congress, Austine Eweka noted that acting Chairman Bashir Yahaya Karaye emerged as Publicity secretary, Barrister. Jamilu Hassan, legal adviser and Sule Shuwaki, Youth leader. Besides the position of the chairman of the party, all the 52 state and zonal positions were won unopposed. While congratulating the new state executive of the party, Governor AbdullahI Umar Ganduje applauded the maturity of the aspirants for accepting defeat in good faith and tasked the new executive to rededicate themselves to building strong party. Ganduje assured party stalwarts of determination to deepening internal democracy and bridge perceived marginalization in then party. The Governor expressed satisfaction on the smooth conduct of the exercise devoid of skirmishes reminding that government did not impose any candidate on the party. Ganduje said his government will sustain harmonious working relationship with the legislative arm and the judiciary. He specifically revealed readiness to work with two Senators,  Kabiru Ibrahim Gaya and Barau I. Jibrin from Kano South and Kano North respectively. According to him “Let me assure that all party members that the new leadership of the party would continue to prosper and become stronger. We would say No to impunity, no to laziness, no to imposition, yes to transparency and accountability. Yes to playing the game by the set rules and regulations, yes to total participation and yes to the observance of the doctrine of the party.” In his acceptance speech, the newly inaugurated Chairman, Abdullahi Abbas assured that his team would work harmoniously with the state government, under the leadership of Governor Ganduje. Abbas explained that “We are ready to accept new entrants and assuring that they will be treated the same way old party members are being treated. We believe in true democratic culture. Sources confirmed that the Kwankwasiyya group had a parallel congress at Lugard House  in the metropolis. A former organizing APC Secretary Sanusi Suraju Kwankwaso said they are still compiling the results as at the time of filling this report. 