The Kwara State Internal Revenue Service (KWIRS) on Wednesday disclosed that it had generated the sum of N7. 7 billion between January and April, 2018 with 70 percent increase when compared to the revenue generated same period last year. Murtala Awodun, Chairman of the Revenue Board, who made the disclosure in Ilorin at the quarterly media parley held at the conference hall of the State Ministry of Information, attributed the increase in internally generated revenue to restructuring of the agency in the last quarter of 2017 in a bid to increase effective service delivery. According to Awodun, the N7.7 billion revenue generated was against N7.4 billion generated in the first four months of 2017, adding that the N7.7 billion generated marks a 70% increase over that of 2017. Giving the monthly analysis, he said: “the sum of N2.2billion was generated for the month of January, N2.3billion for February, N1.8billion for March and N1.29billion for April as against the total sum of N11billion generated at the first quarter in the year 2017.” Awodun posited that the agency also embarked on restructuring, training and retraining of middle and lower management staff to focus on appropriately towards growth in the revenue generation and ensure improved economic development of the state, In order to give back to the community, the KWIRS boss also disclosed that the agency in the last four months had embarked on various Community Impact Programmes. The community impact activities in the last four months include; “renovation of marriage registry, distribution of books to pupils of schools in the Kwara North Senatorial District,clearing of drainages around Tanke area, contribution of endowment funds to the forthcoming convocation of the Kwara State University, Malete and donation of vehicle to the National Union Road Transport Workers (NURTW).” Others according to him are; “sponsoring of symposium at KWASU, donation of borehole to Ifelodun community in Alagbado area, as well as clearing of Yoruba road market.” Awodun, while appreciating the response from the tax payers in the state noted that it had been very encouraging, just as he appealed to the people to continue with their co-oporation. He pointed out that the revenue court remained the last option for all tax defaulter, noting that, two banks (Skye bank and FCMB) operating in Ilorin metropolis were sealed off recently and charge to court for withholding tax on bank interest.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin