Determined to deliver efficient and quality services to cargo owners especially shippers, SIFAX Haulage and Logistics Limited, a subsidy of SIFAX Group, has invested over N1 billion in the acquisition of 20 brand new trucks. The acquisition of the new trucks was to not only boost its operations and consolidate its position as a leader in Nigeria’s logistics industry, but to also ensure timely movement of cargo in and out of the ports. By specification, the trucks are European trucks with 420 horse power rating. Ten out of the 20 trucks were ‘6 by 4’ double axles while the other 10 are triaxle flatbeds with 48 tonnage capacity. The 20 new trucks were brought to complement the 55 trucks already existing in the company’s fleet, thereby bringing the total number of fleet to 75 trucks. Speaking at the official commissioning of the trucks in Lagos last week, John Jenkins, Group managing director, SIFAX Group, said that with the commissioning of the 20 new trucks, SIFAX Haulage, now lives up to the standard it was known for especially due to the fact that the company’s business acumen is geared towards meeting customers’ needs. “We understand the need for further investment to satisfy our customers. Today’s commissioning is in line with the company’s vision of making its brands and businesses the front liners in their respective sectors. It also shows our commitment in constantly strengthening the logistics value chain of the maritime sector, which haulage is an important part,” he said. Jenkins further assured clients that with the new acquisition and relevant capacity development programmes that the staff has undergone, the quality of service to the clients will be a lot better going forward. Adewale Adetayo, general manager, SIFAX Haulage & Logistics Limited, said the company’s decision to expand its fleet is a statement of intent by SIFAX Group to deliver better services to its clients and become an undisputed leader in the logistics industry. “The acquisition of these new trucks is a clear demonstration of the unfettered commitment of the management of the Group to achieving the strategic goal of repositioning its haulage business to greater productivity. It is also part of the company-wide strategy of strengthening all the subsidiaries with the requisite capacities and capabilities to meet the corporate objective of delivering best value in all sectors we operate,” Adetayo said. According to him, the new investment has positioned SIFAX Haulage to compete favourably in this heavily competitive industry. He disclosed that the company’s haulage business is growing by the day as different clients were now signing deals with them apparently due to the quality of its customer-focused service – consignment transfer and nationwide delivery that is executed by well-motivated workforce. “This phenomenal growth has put us under pressure to build more capacity and we are glad today that these new trucks will help in fulfilling our brand promise as we scale up our capacity to meet our clients’ needs,” he added. Continuing, he stated that “With this acquisition, our transfer and delivery processes will be sharpened and we can now compete favourably in the movement of deadweights. We are poised to change the haulage and logistics landscape in Nigeria with the expansion of our fleet. Our haulage team has been well prepared and equipped with various technical trainings to take charge of the operations of the new trucks.” Stating that the investment will enable increased revenue generation, reduction in service breakdown, increased turnaround time and a more-satisfied clientele base, Adetayo disclosed that the vehicles have been installed with video tracking devices that will enable the management to monitor their movements centrally from the office and other remote devices. Henry Ajetunmobi, executive director, SIFAX Off-Dock, who advised the drivers to handle the trucks as if they were owned by them, said the new acquisition will position the company to deliver goods to the right place, at the right and with the right speed. “In doing this, we must be the trailblazers that uphold quality service delivery to our clients. We must therefore continue to discharge our duties not only in an effective and efficient way, but also guided by the ethos of transparency and accountability,” he added.  AMAKA ANAGOR