Two key political figures in the Rauf Aregbesola’s administration in Osun State and All Progressives Congress (APC) fold, Moshood Adeoti and Peter Babalola, have restated the demand that APC governorship ticket be given to an aspirant from Osun West Senatorial District. Adeoti is presently the secretary to Osun State government, while Babalola currently serves as chairman, Local Government Service Commission in the state and the two men are eyeing APC governorship ticket for the September 22 election. Speaking in his Ikire hometown, Peter Babalola, said a Christian from Osun West Senatorial District must succeed the incumbent governor, Aregbesola. Babalola, who spoke in Ikire, the headquarters of Irewole Local Government Area, during an interdenominational service he organised before formal flag off of his governorship campaigns, said agitations by the people of West Senatorial for the governorship ticket of APC is real, adding that the zone would not compromise its stand no matter the interest of the power-brokers with in APC. He commended Governor Aregbesola for raising the bar of development in Osun, saying in almost 8 years of his reign, the state has witnessed unprecedented development. “I worked with the military administration and also with civilian government. Aregbesola’s has been able to outperform others before him since the creation of the state. We don’t want that to stop,” Babalola said. Also, speaking at APC Secretariat when he submitted his intention form to the leadership of the party, the SSG, Adeoti, said Osun West must be given preference by APC in the search for Aregbesola’s successor in the interest of justice. He added that he is still holding on to his position in government since APC constitution did not stipulate that aspirants who are serving must quit their position before vying for political post. Adeoti said it only depends on the discretion of the Governor, Rauf Aregbesola to decide whether his appointees who join the race should resign or not.  BOLADALE BAMIGBOLA, Osogbo