Inspite of effort by it leadership, the internal crisis rocking the ruling All Progressive Congress, (APC) shows no sign of abating, just as the Lagos chapter of the party Saturday held parallel state congress that produced two state chairmen.  In a move seen as an afront on the Tinubu’s political dynasty in Lagos, who for decades had control the political structure of the ‘progressive’ in Lagos state.  It was a tail of confusion and intrigue as a faction led by the outgoing vice chairman of the party in Lagos central and the 2015 campaign Director general for the Akinwunmi Ambode governorship election, Fouad Oki was elected chairman in a parallel congress held at the Airport Hotel Ikeja, while Sanni Oloye and Mr Wole Oshodi became deputy chairman and secretary respectively.  In his inauguration speech, Oki said that the congress held by his group was authentic; declaring that the exercise that took place at the Airport Hotel could not be described as parallel in whatever way. “The congress held at Airport Hotel is the only legitimate one. I’m not aware of any parallel congress, what we did here was the election of one party, the APC. This is a coalition of different groups, namely; Justice Forum, the Mandate and United Group,” he said, assuring that the new APC led by him would carry the party to a greater level.  Meanwhile the Tinubu led faction of the party held it state congress at the party secretariat on ACME Road, Agidingbi, in which Tunde Balogun emerged the state chairman, while other excos are: Chief Sunny Ajose (Deputy Chairman), Chief Funsho Ologunde (vice-chairman, West), Mr Kayode Olusanya (vice-chairman, East), Mr Hakeem Bamigbala (vice-chaiman, Central), Dr. Wale Ahmed (secretary), Ms Olasunmbo (treasurer), Barrister Joana Adebobuyi (assistant treasurer), Mr Joe igbokwe (publicity secretary), Hon. Abiodun Salami (assistant publicity secretary), Ademola Sadiq (legal adviser),  Speaking at the event, Chairman of the State Congress Committee, Senator Ekwunife lauded the arrangements for the exercise,for the smooth conduct of the congress, while expressing gratitude to party leadership in the state for the cooperation and support for her committee, promising to sell Lagos to other states of the Federation on ways to go about having a rancour-free transition. “We are going to suggest to others the need to emulate Lagos on how to have a smooth transition,” she said, noting that the outgoing party chairman, Otunba Henry Ajomale, was happy leaving the position for others to take over. She thanked Ajomale for his leadership role, which she said had seen Lagos growing from strength to strength. Speaking earlier, outgoing chairman state chairman Henry Ajomale, who in his opening thanked party members and leaders for their support and cooperation that had ensured he and his team delivered their best for APC, declaring that the speech he was giving would not be his valedictory since “we are still part and parcel of the party membership.” Ajomale, while welcoming the state governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode; charged incoming leadership to do more and excel.  Iniobong Iwok