The long-awaited 2018 federal budget will be laid within the week and possibly passed early next week, Senate President, Bukola Saraki said after a meeting between President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the National Assembly on Monday. Issues also discussed at the meeting held at the instance of Buhari centred around the non-appearance of the of the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris before the parliament, the ill-treatment being meted to Senator Dino Melaye, as well as the invasion of National Assembly by thugs. Emerging from the meeting held at the Presidential Villa in Abuja, Saraki and Speaker of House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, told State House Correspondents that they discussed key issues of importance to both arms of government. “Hopefully, it (the budget) should be laid this week. If it can be laid this week then it can be passed early next week but we are hoping it will be laid this week,” Saraki stated. Saraki and Dogara, arrived the Aso Rock barely two hours after Buhari arrived Abuja from his home state of Katsina, where he had participated in the ward congress of the All Progressive Congress (APC) on Saturday. Saraki said the President invited them to discuss his recent visit to the USA, the passage of the 2018 Budget, and the invasion of the National Assembly by thugs, but also used the opportunity to report the non-appearance of the IGP, despite repeated invitations. “We came on the invitation of Mr. President, he wanted to brief us on his trip to the United States and also the issue of the budget. We also talked on the issue of concerns to us, the invasion of the National Assembly, which he showed great concern and said action will be taken to investigate that,” Saraki said, as he also appealed that the President should advice officers of the executive arm of government to operate within the ambit of law in their actions. On what was the President’s response on invasion, Saraki said, “Of course, he sees it as an embarrassment to the country and that there will be a proper investigation because is something that is not just about the National Assembly, it is about the country.” Saraki also spoke on their efforts to improve the strain relationship between the executive and the legislature.
“You see, we are here today, it was the initiative of Mr. President to brief us on his visit to America and to engage on discussions and I think that is a good sign. We in the National Assembly have always been ready to give all our support to the executive and we will continue to work along those lines. As I said, the presidential system that we operate, we sometimes have the responsibility to check the excesses of the executive, so there will always be times we will disagree but by and large, we will always work for the interest of Nigerians and always keep on moving on.” Saraki speaking on the non-appearance of the IGP before the parliament, raised the NASS is worried about the matter. “Just talking about the issue of the police, we also raised the issue of the non-appearance of the IG at the senate and felt that they must continue to ensure that he continues to apply obedience to the issue of constituted authority. We are of great concern that this is the first time this is happening and that this matter needs to be addressed considering the importance of the powers of the constitution that gives investigative powers, also gives to us and that there is need for police to accept that they too are under constitution and they must obey that. We raised that concern.” Dogara, who also addressed journalists, speaking on whether Dino Melaye was discussed at the meeting, he said, “On the issue of Senator Dino, of course anything that happens to one of our members or any member of the National Assembly is of concern to us. And there is no way we can have this kind of meeting without raising that. This is a civilian administration, it is democracy and it is imperative and very very important that all institutions of democracy operate within the ambit of the rule of law. “There is nowhere, I have said it before that police will behave in a democracy like a clan of tribesmen, like an upgraded barbarians sort of. So there is need for us to act with civility. We are not saying that anybody should be protected and defended. Once you have committed an offence, our law said you should answer to it but you just have to utilize the provision of our constitution, the rule of law and that this administration of President Muhammadu Buhari has over emphased in order to bring people to book. But a situation where people are
wheeled to court, that doesn’t give good image of our democracy. I have not seen a democracy where people are wheeled to court, they are not in the proper frame of mind and they are forced to undergo trial. “Whatever it is, even if Dino is pretending as some have said it some section of the media, he cannot pretend forever. He is there, he will not run away, he is a senator and he can be tried any time he is in proper frame of mind. As a lawyer, I can tell you, any judge that assesses an accused person not to be in a proper frame of mind, even if the accused person plead guilty, he is duty bound by law to record a plea of not guilty if he is not satisfied as to the soundness of the mind of the accused person. “So the emphasis is there and I believe the president being a listening president will definitely take steps and do something about it.” Dogara, however, said the planned impeachment of the President was not discussed at the meeting. “Well, I don’t think we have the authority to discuss issues of impeachment, impeachment is a political offense and I don’t think we are there yet. “No, never. It wasn’t part of the agenda.” Onyinye Nwachukwu, Abuja