The solvency ratio of five Nigerian insurers out of 12 that have released full year 2017 results has fallen below the regulatory threshold, according to data compiled by BusinessDay.
This means these firms may not have enough buffers to settle all claims in extreme situations.
The solvency ratio of an insurance company is the size its capital relative to all risk it has undertaken. It measures the extent to which assets cover commitments for future payments or liabilities.
A stronger or higher ratio indicates financial strength. In stark contrast, a lower ratio, or one on the weak side, could indicate financial struggles in the future.
The ratio is calculated as the amount of Available Solvency Margin (ASM) in relation to the amount of Required Solvency Margin (RSM). The ASM is the value of the company’s assets over liabilities, and RSM is based on net premiums.
For instance in India, insurers are required to maintain a minimum ratio of 1.50 or 150 percent.
According to China’s regulatory regime, insurance firms are required to maintain solvency ratios above 100 percent, or be subject to penalties on the scope of their business and financing activities.
“From the regulators point of view, the ideal ratio is 150 percent but insurance companies should look beyond the target set by the regulator,” Jide Orimolade, managing director and CEO of Law Union and Rock Insurance Plc told BusinessDay on phone.
The 5 insurers whose solvency ratios are below the regulatory threshold are, Aiico Insurance Nigeria Plc with solvency ratio of 55 percent, First Bank Insurance Plc, 59.10 percent; Leadway Assurance Limited 76 percent; NEM Insurance Plc, 93 percent and Continental Nigeria Plc 90 percent.
However, other insurers have ratios above 150 percent.
They are Prestige Assurance with solvency ratio of (385 percent); Wapic Insurance, 283 percent; Law Union and Rock Insurance, (225 percent); Lasaco Insurance, (204 percent).
While Mansard Insurance Plc’s and Consolidated Hall Mark Insurance Plc’s and ratios of 132 percent and 116 percent are below the threshold, analysts are of the view that there is room for improvement.
In the insurance parlance, a company with a low solvency ratio doesn’t necessary mean it isn’t profitable as evidenced in the example below.
While leadway Assurance’s solvency ratio is below the threshold, the company’s net income increased by 82.45 percent to N13.83 billion in December 2017, thanks to contributions from investment income and gains from fair value investment.
Insurers in the United States, Europe and Asia sell some of their equity investment in their books that can help boost solvency ratios.
For instance, Italian insurer Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A.’s solvency ratio rose to 200 percent after the sale of its Swiss private banking unit, BSI.
In order to strengthen the risk management system of insurers in Africa’s most populous nation, National insurance Commission (NAICOM) has transited to the risk based solvency supervision model (RBS) model.
This means that any insurance firm intending to undertake oil and gas, aviation and marine business must have the capital to take on such risk. The objective of the RBS is to reduce the losses suffered by policyholders in the event that a firm is unable to meet claims fully. BALA AUGIE