Nigeria’s real estate giant Kuber Developers Limited has raised design and construction standards in Lagos with its state-of-the-art edifice, “The Belmonte.”
In recognition of this stride, “The Belmonte” has received “the Real Estate Project of the Year Award” from Nigeria’s foremost-organised private sector group. The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) honoured Kuber Developers for its luxurious project—seen by industry players as a masterpiece.
Kuber Developers director, Ashish Chaudhary, confirmed this at a recent event, saying, “Our vision is for The Belmonte to be a landmark building in terms of quality and luxury.” Starting with its location on Bourdillon Road in Ikoyi, the high-brow area of Lagos Island, “The Belmonte” is a 20-storeyed tower, which is envisaged to set a new hallmark for a sophisticated urban living, with spacious apartments, lavish duplexes and penthouses. Its apartments are equipped with high technology and high-end facilities, including fire and safety system, multi-tier security, 24 hour CCTV security, and a Club Floor that has pools, spa and wellness center, lounge, kids’ play zone and a panoramic gym—all contributing to a modern life style in Lagos.
Given that citizens love luxury and spaciousness, “The Belmonte” is perfect for the Nigerian market since it adds a touch of sophistication to its residents’ lifestyle. Serenity is also a key feature.
“We have made sure each home has large balconies and each bedroom has access to a balcony in so people can contemplate the beauty of Lagos and Ikoyi,” stated Chaudhary.
Checks show that “The Belmonte” has engaged the best architects, structural engineers and consultants from Nigeria and across the world, and this fact confirms Chaudhary’s statement that the “quality of construction is on a par with any international standard.”
This prestigious project has improved the skyline in Lagos city, and one real estate player pointed out that “The Belmonte” is a testament that there are still real estate developers willing to redefine the sector in the country.
“Our large population of 180 million and the housing deficit in the country indicate a positive prospect for the real estate industry,” says Nike Akande, immediate past president of the LCCI, at a recent event organised by the chamber entitled, ‘Standardisation and Sustainability: A New Era in the Real Estate Industry.” The country’s 198 million people are constantly in search of better housing, blending space and efficiency together. There currently is a 17 million housing gap in the country, with population experts expecting the number to rise, given the country’s 2.6 to 3.2 percent growth rate per annum. Fortunately, “The Belmonte” is also attracting investors who appreciate the country’s demographic strength.
Blending luxury, comfort, style and technology, “The Belmonte” is a tower that has added a positive touch to the construction caliber in Nigeria.  ODINAKA ANUDU