Senate President Bukola Saraki on Wednesday expressed embarrassment about the accusation by the immediate past Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Attahiru Jega, that members of the National Assembly are bribe takers. Saraki who was one of the guests at the Democracy Day lecture where Jega made the allegation, challenged him to name the lawmakers involved in taking bribes. “I was at the programme, myself and the Speaker and we were highly embarrassed by this kind of comment. All of us are committed to the fight against corruption. But I believe it doesn’t help the fight against corruption, it is a slight to the integrity of some of us, where such a statement is made. “If he has those kinds of evidences, he should bring it forward. Because to say that, is to suggest that every member of the National Assembly is part of this even those who are not part of this are condoling this action which is far from the truth. “I think what the Professor who is respected, should come out and mention these members he is aware of. If he can’t come out and name then he should not make such branding statements. “Going forward to all distinguished and respected Nigerians, in issues that have to do with the institutions and a parliament, if there are cases like this, we have always said that we are not going to cover up for anybody and future accusations, they should name them and see what the institution would do in trying to ensure that the necessary sanctions are taken,” Saraki said, while speaking on a Point of Order raised by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Navy, Isah Misau at Wednesday plenary. Delivering a Democracy Day lecture on Monday, the former INEC boss had accused chairmen of committees in the National Assembly of bribery. He told the gathering which included President Muhammadu Buhari, Saraki, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara as well as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, that the federal lawmakers took bribes under the pretence of oversight functions. He urged the President to expand the scope of his anti-corruption crusade to the National Assembly. “Members of the National Assembly engage in bribe taking when they pursue committee works and oversight and I wonder what is happening with intelligence and investigative responsibilities of security agencies in policing our National Assembly. Some chairmen of the committees in the National Assembly have become notorious on this issue of demanding bribes with impunity. “I have passed through the university system. I have heard so many stories of many vice- chancellors about the horror that they go through on question of budget and so-called oversight assignments,” Jega had said.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja