Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the All Progressives Congress, APC has warned the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP to stop milling unfounded allegations against the ruling party as Nigerians gullible to believe the main opposition’s lies to curry electoral favour. APC said it is “increasingly baffled by the PDP new found proclivity for constantly spewing falsehood in the name of opposition rhetoric and politics”. Bolaji Abdullahi, APC National Publicity Secretary, gave this warning against the backdrop of a recent statement by a spokesperson of the PDP in which the APC was accused of among others corruption, sectionalism and opposition clampdown, in the leadup to the 2019 elections. Abdullahi noted that while it is a widely-known fact that suppressing the opposition was the stock in trade of the PDP during its defunct 16-year rule, the APC has definitely not inherited this undemocratic practice in its governance style both in its internal politics and the country’s administration, under President Muhammadu Buhari. The Spokesperson of the ruling Party said Nigerians will recall how past PDP administrations illegally and routinely used state apparatus to harass opposition figures as seen in the attack on the APC data centre, blockage of the air and road routes to prevent movement of then opposition leaders in the leadup to the 2015 elections, among other clampdowns, too numerous to list. He observed that PDP is quick to forget the divisive, insensitive and sectional politics it played during the 2015 electioneering campaign when its women’s wing led by a former first lady, denigrated the country’s north as “parasitic and unwilling to educate and cater for its young populace, pointedly regarded the Boko Harm insurgency as a northern affair”. “The PDP without an iota of proof, rather spewing laughable conspiracies accuses the APC-led administration of ‘barefaced looting’. Elections are around the corner and Nigerians are not gullible. They see through the PDP’s diversionary antics aimed at deflecting attention from the wanton culture of impunity and corruption it instituted when it held sway. “Do we forget the PDP administration’s unwillingness to operate the now implemented Treasury Single Account  (TSA) which has greatly plugged government revenue leakages? Do we forget the voodoo economics, reckless fiscal policies and shocking pillage of the public treasury perpetuated during past PDP administrations? Do we forget confessions by the immediate-past finance minister and coordinating minister of the economy, reporting ‘zero political will to save’ under the immediate-past administration. “Do we forget the $2.2 billion anti-insurgency funds fraudulently diverted and disbursed by the erstwhile National Security Adviser to political associates of the immediate-past President and PDP members, while our military personnel on the frontlines were ill-equipped and demoralized, resulting in many avoidable deaths and the maiming of our gallant men in uniform?”, Abdullahi queried. The APC National Publicity Secretary stated that Nigerians generally agree that the era of impunity is beginning to disappear from our national life and there is a gradual acceptance of the best practice and time-honoured values of honesty, hardwork, patriotism, abhorrence of corruption, accountability and integrity in citizens’ everyday life. He said PDP’s narrative is anchored on the belief that if they continue to throw these wild allegations around, somehow, Nigerians will forget what they truly represent and the atrocities that they have committed against the country. “Alas, Nigerians are wiser now and our memories are longer. We can forgive, but we will not forget. Change is perhaps the most difficult idea to implement in our societies, but sometimes, it becomes necessary or even inevitable, just as Nigeria found itself in 2015 because of PDP misrule. “Whatever is left of PDP, after years of suicidal gluttony, can only whine about imaginary persecution while wilfully ignoring the efforts being made to literally clear the mess they created and build a new Nigeria in line with the Change Agenda promised the electorate”, he insisted. He urged Nigerians to remain steadfast to the collective task of achieving the Nigeria of their dreams, hence with the prayers and support for the administration, APC will propel the country on the path of growth in all facets.  James Kwen, Abuja