Leaders and the people of the South East took a bold step May 21, 2018, with the Awka Declaration. The Igbo affirmed their resolve to continue to play a significant role in building Nigeria as well as their willingness to consider options should the need arise. The statement was keen on the imperative of restructuring Nigeria to work better for all constituent units.
The highlights of the Awka Declaration included a call for a single-term of six years for the President and Governors, the rotational presidency and the introduction of Vice Presidents representing each of the six geopolitical zones of the country. Ohanaeze posits that such Vice Presidents would also serve as coordinating ministers for a set of ministries. They also affirmed the imperative of resource control, regional government, fiscal federalism and making local government creation and funding the business of individual states rather than a federal concern.
Ohanaeze also remembered to pitch for merit as a principal criterion for appointments and elevations in Nigeria’s public service. In doing so, they also recognized the necessity for affirmative action to ensure representation of all groups.
It was heartwarming to see that the gathering included significant players representing various social institutions in the South East, from religion through education to traditional leaders. It also drew representation from the South-South, South West, the Middle Belt and Southern Kaduna.
The Awka Declaration represents the Igbo position in the anticipated negotiation and conversation of various groups in Nigeria. It focused on externalities. Professor Chukwuma Soludo heads the 100-person Planning and Strategy Committee. The Awka Declaration drew from work over the years by Ohanaeze Ndigbo and various Igbo think tanks. It incorporated the submissions of the Igbo Leaders of Thought for the 2014 National Conference; Igbo positions for the 1994 constitutional conference and 2005 and 2014 national conferences; the report of the committee set up by Southeast governors on the review of the 1999 Constitution. Also noted were the report of the World Igbo Summit by the Igbo Renaissance Centre, Uturu; various submissions/reports by Aka Ikenga; Izu Umunna; Nzuko Umunna; the Igbo intelligentsia; the World Igbo Congress; reports of various meetings and conferences of Igbo stakeholders and leaders.
“The Ohanaeze Planning and Strategy Committee and the Organizing Committee for the Summit on restructuring also embarked on town hall-style consultative meetings in Abuja, Lagos, and Enugu to collate inputs from major segments of Igbo society. Memoranda and inputswere also received from over 40 pan-Igbo groups, NGOs, and individuals. A draft was presented and debated at the National Executive Committee and the Imeobi of Ohanaeze Ndigbo.
“Ndigbo want a Nigeria that works to maximize their security, prosperity, and happiness. Igbo also want a Nigeria that allows every part of Nigeria the latitude and opportunity to develop at their own pace. We want a national conversation to create a new and better Nigeria for all Nigerians.”
As the Oha na di Eze met at the Ekwueme Square, a group representing a large body of the dominant demographic in the South East stood outside in loud protestations. The youth did not want the Summit to hold in the first place, contrary to the Igbo worldview that allows for contestation of ideas and the space for such ideas to flourish. Underlining that protest, however, is the need to look inwards.
While the Awka Declaration is essential as a bargaining position for the Igbo, there is a greater need for Ndigbo to begin to hold conversations internally.Many issues beg for attention beyond the external. They concern the matter of developing at their own pace that the Igbo consider foundational. A fundamental question for instance, for both the dominant Ohanaeze and the IPOB, is how ready are the states of the South East and the region for a regional government or an independent countryshould other regions concur today and it becomes a reality? What is in place for any of the scenarios? What is the strategy and what are the plans to drive that strategy?
There is a vastgulf between the elders and the youth of Igboland on many issues but primarily concerning future direction and strategy for the region. Unfortunately, no one is bridging the gap, and it is worsening daily. It is critical for the area that the youth demographic, being the dominant one as well as the future, should be in alignment with the current leaders on critical issues.
The matter of unity also applies to the leaders in the political space. The Ohanaeze Summit on Restructuring featured only the host Governor Chief Willie Obiano of Anambra State. Why were the Governors of the brother states of Abia, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo absent? Imagine the impact if they had a united stand and presence at the event.
As these things go, it is coincidental that Prof Chukwuma Soludo read the Awka Declaration. Soludo had an Awka Exposition last year in his declaration of the concept of Ndigbo as a global tribe. The promise and challenge of Ndigbo as a global tribe and how to realise that potential should be one of the key focus areas for Ndigbo everywhere. We will continue listening to the East… Chido Nwankanma