Abdulmumin Jibrin, former Chairman, House Committee on Finance during President Goodluck Jonathan administration has challenged Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, former Minister of Finance to mention all the beneficiaries and those who negotiated the N17 billion election expenses as alleged in her book. Jibrin (APC-Kano) who denied involvement in the N17 billion election expenses allegation leveled against the leadership of National Assembly and chairmen of Senate and House Committees on Appropriation and Finance, however expressed overwhelming support for the probe of the financial scandal. Recall that Jibrin was suspended by the leadership of House of Representatives for 230 legislative days over budget padding allegations to the tune of N40 billion, over allegation leveled against four principal officers and some other members, was pardoned and restored back and allowed to resume sitting last month. The lawmaker via statement titled: ‘Re: N17bn election expenses for NASS members in 2014 budget,’ obtained by our Correspondent, who did not discard the possibility of the allegation, also offered to be probed by the two anti-graft agencies, just as he affirmed that allegations of corruption must be dealt with decisively. Jibrin’s statement read: “My attention has been drawn to media reports from extract of a book- Fighting corruption dangerous- written by former Finance Minister Dr Ngozi Okonjo Iweala wherein she stated that in a tough session with National Assembly’s ad-hoc committee on budget (made up of chairs of Finance and Appropriation Committee of both chambers and other leaders of National Assembly), 17 billion naira was forced into the budget for election expenses for members of NASS.’ “As Chairman House Committee on Finance during the period in question, I wish to state as follows: “I was never part of a meeting where such decision was made. I am not aware of any 17 billion naira introduced in the 2014 budget for election expenses for members of NASS. “I did not benefit in any way or form from such a money if at all it ever existed. “It is absolutely unfair for the former Minister of finance to make such grievous allegation in a blanket manner. “She should have named those that participated at the said meeting and received the money. That will be a higher service to the country and will aide investigation and help establish culpability. “Budget is not rocket science, the former Finance Minister with her huge institutional memory, documents at her disposal and massive contacts can identify and state specifically where the money was inserted in the budget and how it was implemented in favour of the alleged beneficiaries. “In all my interactions (including budget matters), oversight and sometimes confrontation with the former Minister of Finance, it always centered on issues particularly on the MTEF and economy and most of our activities, engagements and discuss are in the public glare. “The toughest of such issue based interaction for me was 2013 MTEF. In one of such meetings at the Villa, there was an outburst between myself and the former Finance Minister on issues concerning the MTEF “President Jonathan interrupted my presentation, backed his Minister and took time to dress me down to the surprise of the NASS delegation. “I apologized to him and proceeded with my presentation as if nothing happened. I got a well-done tap on my shoulder from President Jonathan after the meeting. “I am by this statement putting up myself before all the anti graft agencies to investigate me and established if I am part of that decision or benefited from its outcome or proceed. “We should not take allegations of corruption lightly as such, when allegations of corruption are raised, it must be dealt with decisively,” Jibrin said in the statement.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja