Former Osun state deputy governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore, on Sunday announced his exit from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and formally declared for Social Democratic Party (SDP). But a governorship aspirant on the platform of SDP in the state, Kola Oladeji, said that Senator Omisore, based on the party’s records, is not yet its member. Senator Omisore, who was the lawmaker representing Osun East Senatorial District in the Senate between year 2003 and 2011, in a statement he personally signed and made available to newsmen in Osogbo, said his latest political move was necessitated by the happenings in his formal party, PDP. He stressed that his personality combines toughness and flexibility, which according to him, makes a good leader in all standards. Omisore argued that those who have “misconstrued” him to be arrogant, are weak personalities with intent of mischief. His statement reads parts: “I played a pivotal role in the creation of the now defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD) when the country returned back to democratic rule in 1999 and I became the Deputy Governor of this great state. “It is intrigues, dishonesty and loss of vision in vociferous attacks on my person that led to my departure from the AD and foray in the PDP. “In moving forward, and way from the PDP, my commitment to Osun state shall remain resolute and unshaken. It is my state of origin, the people my people, and where ever I go, I shall remain their dutiful son, and leader. Nothing can change that.” But a SDP governorship aspirant, Otunba Oladeji, in another statement issued in Osogbo, said primary election that chased Omisore out of PDP awaits him in SDP. Oladeji said: “From records available to us, Senator Omisore is not a member of SDP in Osun. I advise Chief Omisore to first and foremost, properly approach us to regularise his membership, and until that is done, he is not a member of our party. “Also, I would like to sound a note of warning to Omisore that if he felt the primary process in PDP is rigorous, he should wait and see a far more challenging one in SDP. If he opts for the membership of SDP and presents himself as a governorship candidate, I want to assure him that I will give him a good and competitive run, putting in all that it will legitimately require to clinch my party’s ticket for the poll. “Also, we need to drum it loud and clear to the ears of Omisore’s supporters that they should not think we will fall for their delusional belief that Omisore has what it takes to win the governorship poll on any platform. “We need to remind them that even on PDP platform, Omisore lost miserably to Aregbesola in 2014, even in spite of the backing of the federal government and all its security apparatuses. All those factors that guarantee electoral victory are no longer within the beck and call of Otunba Omisore.”  BOLADALE BAMIGBOLA, Osogbo