At last, over 5,000 refugees displaced from Ekporo community in Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State by communal conflict, can now sing the song of freedom, as they head back to their ancestral home after five years of sojourn in other places. The Ekporos were sacked from their land five years ago, following a bloody communal conflict between them and their neighbours from Ogu-bolo community in Rivers State. Several conflict resolution mechanisms applied by all stakeholders, especially the general overseer of CommonWealth Church Intl, Moses Kattey, in Eleme and the state in general to settle the protracted disputes over land boundary met a brick wall. But relief has come, as the new Caretaker-Committee (CTC) chairman of Eleme Local Government Area Council,  Godwin Abey-Oloo, and other peacemakers from his domain secured the listening ears of the State Governor, Nyesom Wike, who promptly brokered peace between the two communities. Abbey-Oloo disclosed the cheery news to his people during the May Day celebration by the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE) Eleme Local Government chapter. He said confidence building between the two local government authorities had begun and that in matter of weeks, the displaced Ekporo people would begin the journey back to their home. Abey-Oloo commended the union’s leadership and the entire workers, saying their co-operation strengthened him to achieve the mandate given to him by Governor Wike, which included prompt payment of workers’ salaries, security of lives and property and environmental sanitation, among others. Earlier in his address, the chairman of NULGE Eleme council chapter, Mimi Gospel, announced a special award of Good Governance and Leadership Quality to the CTC chairman, attesting that he (Chairman) has kept to his mandate since assumption of office. Gospel noted that, “considering the interim nature of the government, the chairman and his members, administrative head and directors swung into action soon after their inauguration and within a few days, their efforts began to bear fruit which necessitated the award”. Gospel, who congratulated the chairman for providing infrastructure to the staff, as well as for prompt payment of staff salaries and welfare and improving on Internal Revenue Generation (IRG) also appealed to him over the completion of remaining renovation projects started by his predecessor, Obarillor-mate Ollor, which  include renovation of the Union Hall which doubles as worship centre for the staff, payment of establishment exams 2013/2014 session till date and furnishing of union office. The CTC Chairman responded that the union’s request had been approved by the Governor for immediate execution, while commending him (Wike) for carrying Eleme along in the areas of people’s projects he lined up, including the full renovation of General Hospital, Government Secondary School Onne, dualisation of Akpajo-Eleme road, and the flagging-off of Agbonchia road, among others. Abey-Oloo had earlier declared to the workers that his administration would be anchored on transparency, accountability, peace and prosperity, assuring that there would be smooth and productive relationship between them and political appointees, so as to achieve the goals and objectives of the government.  Godwin Egba, Port Harcourt 