Observing that the more opportunities created for the citizens, the better for sustainable peace and stability in the state, in particular and the nation in general, emphasising that, ” We need business opportunities across other nations of the world. Such can be achieved through organised effort like that of the Chamber of Commerce.” He reveals this when the leadership of the Nigerian-Ethiopian Chamber of Commerce, under the chairmanship of Alhaji Umaru Dangote, paid him a courtesy call at his office, during an Executive Council meeting, recently. “Government will do its best to see that this partnership works perfectly. We have the political will to see that more business opportunities become readily available for the development of our society,” Ganduje says. The governor appreciates the Chamber’s plan to engage their effort in registering unemployed people in the state in particular, stressing that, “This shows how serious you are in scientifically addressing the issue. So we need to appreciate this move.” Adding that, there could be no better time to benefit from such working relationship than now. According to him, “The coming up of this association is encouraging, especially to us as a government.” “We will always be happy to come together and see how these things between us can promote growth and development of our economy, how they can help in the reinvigoration of our industries and agricultural development as well,” Ganduje encourages. In his remarks earlier the Chairman of the Chamber, Dangote reveals that, ” We came to realise that there is a critical need for us to get involved in the organised Chamber of Commerce. We will use this to look into the issue of moribund industries. How to revive them and what to do to sustain the development aspect of it.” “As a result of this we have started discussing on how to bring forth Kuwait Funds and Islamic Development Bank, among others to help business people secure loans without hitches, in Kano and other states,” he said. He further disclosed that, they wanted to know the exact number of unemployed youth in all the 44 local government areas of Kano state, emphasising that, “It is through this that we can be able to move forward and develop our people and our states. That can also help government gets accurate information for a meaningful development plan.” “Kano as a centre of commerce, not only in Nigeria, but, even across the West African sub-region, we believe that the state economy should be improved. As such the economic glory of the state should be seen to be restored,” he added. Dangote further revealed that they wanted to bring in more Chambers of Commerce into the country, and the state in particular.