Thugs attacked a Port Harcourt high court Friday, May 11, 2018, ostensibly to stop an injunction against the Saturday, May 12, 2018, congress in the state. Youths numbering almost 100 stormed the high court where the injunction was to be granted. They destroyed court properties and ransacked libraries, turning the place to a war scene. The thugs were believed to have come from the main faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State loyal to former governor and minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. Amaechi is being opposed by his long term loyalist, the senator, Magnus Abe, who wants to be the next governor of the state whereas Amaechi wants a repeat of 2015 bid led by Dakuku Peterside, another loyalist for years. This has caused deep divide in the APC in the state, something that threatens to scuttle their 2019 bid. Though both groups had denied existence of any faction or crisis in the state, the last week ward congresses have proved it. Whereas Abe said there were no congresses, the party said it was held and have ratified the results. Those elected were to proceed to the next level but the Abe group was said to have gone the high court to stop it. Sensing that Abe may get help from Gov Nyesom Wike in the courts, thugs units moved in to thwart the injunction opportunity. The court however still issued the injunction after all the fracas. Others said it was the police that took the action. Gov Wike has reacted to the incident and declared that the attack on Rivers State Judiciary is an attempt by the Police and the APC to overthrow the Rivers State Government. The governor spoke immediately after he inspected the Rivers State High Court Complex destroyed by the Police and supporters of the APC from the faction of the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. He said the APC and Police damaged several courtrooms, ransacked the court library, destroyed vehicles and looted shops. Hundreds of expended bullets were said to have littered the High Court Complex. Governor Wike said it is unfortunate that the Nigeria Police connived with leaders of the APC to close the courts and stop it from dispensing justice to Rivers people. He said: “This is very unfortunate.  Do not trivialize this invasion by saying it is just an attack by the APC on the judiciary.  This is a complete coup by the Nigerian Police and the APC to overthrow the Rivers State Government. “We have said it before and we have been vindicated by this callous joint invasion of the Rivers State Judiciary”. Governor Wike noted that it was the immediate past Rivers State Governor, Amaechi that potted the attack on the Judiciary on Thursday on behalf of the Federal Government, pointing out that the plot was executed by a former Local Government Chairman already standing trial for murder. “We must defend ourselves and the nation’s democracy. We cannot continue to rely on the police.  Remember, it was the police that kidnapped a sitting governor,” he said. He commended Rivers’ youths for rising in defence of their mandate by mobilising to open the courts, despite the shootings by the Nigerian Police.  Ignatius Chukwu