The National Assembly has explained why it implemented the National Health Act, 2014, which stipulates that a minimum of 1 percent of the Consolidated Revenue Fund be set aside for basic healthcare. In the N9.120trillion 2018 budget passed by the National Assembly on Wednesday, N57.15billion was allocated for Basic Health Provision Package. This is the first time Nigeria has implemented the Act, four years after it was passed. Speaking at a press conference on Thursday in Abuja, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Health, Lanre Tejuoso, said the federal legislature has lived up to its promise by including Basic Health Care Provision Package in the 2018 budget. He said the implementation of the act is a game changer for primary health care in the country. Although the implementation of the act was not effected in the 2018 budget submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari to a joint session of the National Assembly, lawmakers however accommodated the fund through the increase in oil price benchmark from $45 to $51 per barrel. Tejuoso also revealed that a toll free line will be opened for people to lay complaints about activities of primary health centres, adding that the funds would be distributed to the centres directly. He said: “We hope to introduce a toll free line, that you call us to let us know what is happening with your primary health centre, so that when we give them money, we don’t want a situation whereby the money will not be applied appropriately. “Every primary centre will have some money coming directly to the health centre and not going to the local government before they give it to them. “So there is no reason for that primary health centre not to have basic drugs and not to have salaries to pay the nurses, even the strike will be a thing of the past”. He disclosed that 50 percent of the fund would be dedicated for disease control. The National Health Act seeks to provide a framework for the regulation, development and management of a national health system and set standards for rendering health service in the country. Some of the benefits of the Act include the provision of free basic health care services for children under the age of five, pregnant women, the elderly and persons with disabilities in the country. Also, the law guarantees the universal acceptance of accident victims in both public and private health institutions, bans senior public officers’ use of public funds for treatment abroad, especially for ailments that can be treated locally. Speaking after the budget was passed, Senate President Bukola Saraki, pointed out that the move will not only transform the health care landscape in the country through better public funding of health but will also translate to improved access to basic health care service in the country. According to him, it demonstrates the commitment and responsiveness of the 8th National Assembly to health care needs of Nigerians. This, he said, will help to achieve some of the Sustainable Development Goals especially SDG 3 which talks about Good Health and well-being by 2030. Saraki who is also a medical doctor said: “For me, today is a very happy day for those of us who are from the medical profession. Those serving and those who are not serving. I want to on behalf of all practising doctors,  not native doctors, to thank the entire National Assembly for this 1 percent of budget towards primary health care provision. This will go a long way in addressing our health issues. “As we all know today, Nigeria accounts for 10 percent of the world maternal mortality, 9 percent for child mortality and about 8 percent for infant mortality. This is not where we should be as a country. And I think what we have done is to open a new page that enables our people to be much healthier and stronger”.