Leader of pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Ruben Fasoranti, has said the Southwest would never work with the Olusegun Obasanjo-inspired political movement, Coalition for Nigerian movement (CNM) which formally merged with the African Democratic Congress (ADC) to contest the 2019 general election. The movement coordinated by former Governor of Osun State, Olagunsoye Oyinlola had last week merged with ADC. Oyinlola cited the urgent need to rescue Nigeria from the current state of misgovernance and social despair as reasons for the movement fusing into a political party. But speaking in a telephone interview with BusinessDay, Fasoranti revealed that the group does not believe in the ideologies of the coalition or ADC as a political a party, adding that working with Obasanjo was totally impossible because the former president had rebuffed Afenifere in the past. The Afenifere leader said the ADC was not the solution to the problems bedeviling the country, adding that it could not work with politicians who he said were only seeking for their personal interest. When asked if the group may support the re-election bid of the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari, the elder statesman said the current administration has failed Nigerians in all its ramifications, adding that it would never work for its return. He said the group would soon meet to take its position on the 2019 general election and who the group may likely support, adding that the country was sliding into a monumental chaos. “We are not interested in working with Obasanjo’s ADC or any of his coalitions; Obasanjo has rebuffed us in the past when there was pressing issues that we needed him and there is no reason we should work with him now or with his coalition,” Fasoranti said. According to him, “Whatever they are doing we don’t know if they are the way forward for the country. But we would meet soon to decide and take our position. But I can also tell you that we would not work with this Buhari government, his re-election bid, he has failed Nigerians; look at the state of the country,” Fasoranti said.  Iniobong Iwok