 The resolution was passed following the adoption of a motion sponsored by James Faleke (APC-Lagos), who noted that education being a pivot upon which the human capital development of the nation rests, should be made accessible and affordable to citizens.  According to Faleke, a total sum of N7.8 billion was remitted by JAMB to the Federal Government being the excess of the N12 billion made from the sale of Unified Tertiary Examinations (UTME) application forms for University admission in 2017 excluding incomes from the sales of other forms such as Change of Course Forms and Change of University Forms at the rate of N5, 000 each.  “An estimated 250,000 candidates purchase the UTME forms, bringing the income from sales of the forms to an estimated sum of N2.4 billion per year.  “The House notes that the cost does not include the Post UMTE Examinations that are conducted by universities at an average cost of N2, 500 per candidate, excluding the expenses made on logistics.  “The House is aware that the Board had a surplus of N7 billion budget in 2017, meaning that the sum under consideration is from sales of forms only, making the Board a profit making venture to the detriment of the educational and social development of the country.  “The House is also aware that the increase in the number of universities from 12 at inception of JAMB in 1798, with less than 50,000 candidates to over 400 tertiary Institutions with more than 1.7 million candidates writing the exams and indices shows only about 50% of those who wrote the examinations were admitted in the universities as at 2017.  “The House is further aware that JAMB, as a government agency, is not set up for profit making but to promote educational development of the young citizens in pursuit of their professional careers.  “The House is alarmed at the allegation of  the huge sum of money missing from the vaults, burning of scratch cards, lending out money made from sales of application forms, conversion of proceeds from sales of application forms to loans and image ’empowerment’ funds to private individuals and fictitious by stories by the officials of the board.  “The House recognises that  being the first time such an amount is being  returned to government coffers by any government agency, the management of JAMB deserves commendation for upholding the Federal Government’s anti-corruption policies,” Faleke noted.  To this end, the House mandated the Committee on Basic Education and Services to ensure compliance and report back within two weeks for further legislative action.