President Muhammadu Buhari has cut short his medical trip to the United Kingdom as he now expected back today, Friday 11th May, instead of his initial arrival date of Saturday, May 12th. No official explanation has been advanced for the change of arrival date, but Presidency sources told BusinessDay that the ” President is already on his way and will arrive Nigeria at 7pm Nigeria time. A statement released on Monday and signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu had stated that the President was expected back on Saturday 12th May, 2018. On his return, the President is expected to embark on a two-day State scheduled visit to Jigawa, which was postponed earlier as a result of the All Progressives Congress, APC’s Ward Congresses. The President had left Nigeria late Tuesday evening after receiving Letters of Credence from some diplomats to undertake a four-day trip to the United Kingdom. President Buhari’s health status has been of great concern to Nigerians as many see his regular medical trips as sign of major hindrance to his effective performance in office. The current visit makes it the third in 2018 alone , the first being the long week stay in London, ahead of the recent Commonwealth Heads of government meeting in that country. The President also had a stop over meeting with his Doctors on his way to Nigeria from his recent visit to the United States. The President had on Friday joined the Christian community in Nigeria and the national leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in mourning the passing on of the General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Musa Asake. The President, in a two paragraph statement signed by the Presidential Spokesman, Femi Adesina had commiserated with the family of late Asake and prayed that God Almighty will comfort all those who mourn the departed, and grant his soul eternal rest. Recall that Musa Asake, the late general secretary of the association, had last week led protests against killings of innocent people across the country by herdsmen.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja