The dust raised as a result of the congresses in Oyo state is yet to settle as Unity Forum, a group within the All Progressives Congress (APC), has petitioned the leadership of the party. The petition forwarded to the party’s National Chairman, President Muhammadu Buhari and the party’s National Working Committee (NWC) on the prolonged factional crisis rocking the party in the state over the recently held ward, local and state congresses of the party.
The forum also sent the copy of the petition to the EFCC, the Central Bank and the Inspector General of Police asking the APC National Chairman to declare the Congresses held by the “Unity Forum of the APC-Oyo State, as the only legal congress, with recognition of all the attendant prerequisites”.
In the petition signed by the Forum Secretary, Wasiu Olatunbosun, titled ‘Illegal conduct by Ajimobi faction, of a Purported APC ward congress in favour of persons who did not obtain nomination forms,’ the Unity Forum alleged that those in the Governor Abiola Ajimobi faction of APC in Oyo State should not be accorded “the status of lawful and proper contestants of the party at the ward and subsequent levels.”
It also alleged in the petition “that the Transfer Forms of Agodi Branch of First Bank which was presented as proof of payment for nomination forms for the ward congress was fake.”
Quoting the number of the Transfer Form of First Bank which is purportedly dated May 4 as 29173701 which it alleged to be fake, the Unity Forum claimed that the Governor Ajimobi “loyalists only paid the nomination sum of N20.06million to the account of APC at the Agodi Branch of First Bank on Monday May 7th.”
The forum alleged further that those that made the lodgment on May 7,2018 paid, N4,200,000 each except two of them (names withheld) “lodged the same amount of N4,200,000 twice same day bringing the total lodgment to N21,000,000:00, which is the same amount purportedly paid on May 4, 2018 for the same purpose.”
“It has come to our attention that an illegal ward congress was conducted in Oyo State on 6th May 2018, by some group of persons who parade themselves as the Ajimobi faction. This illegal/unlawful exercise is indeed worrisome, as it compromises the integrity of this quintessential party.”
According to the forum, “There is no dispute as to the fact that the All Progressives Congress (APC) is regulated by the Guidelines for Wards, Local Government Areas and States Congress. It is also not in doubt that the said Guideline prescribes the procedure for Nomination of Candidates [for party positions], in the following manner.”
Emphasizing that aspirants to party positions in the wards, local governments and States will be elected at the various congress and will be required to be persons with the highest degree of Character, Competence, Capacity and shall pay the specified fees for the party nomination form, the Forum in the petition wondered “if truly Ajimobi’s loyalists paid N20.06m on May 4 for the ward congresses as they claimed before the Appeals Committee of the APC, why will they pay the same sum again on May 7th, a day after the congress? “Will Governor Ajimobi’s contestants pay twice for the same set of forms? they asked rhetorically.
“The clear deduction is that a fake bank document dated May 4, 2 018 was presented to the Congress and Appeal Committees of the APC to deceive them when in actual fact, they only made payment on Monday, May 7th, the day after the congress. By that act of deception, they clearly demonstrated that they knew that not paying before the congress automatically precludes them from the congress. It is very sad that people in high places will descend so low to deceive their party and the people. It is total lack of integrity.”
“In light of the above, we urge you Sir, not to recognise the said purported contestants; and not to accord them any benefit that may be attached to the status of lawful and proper contestants of the party at the ward and subsequent levels. Conversely Sir, we humbly urge that the congress conducted involving the Unity Forum of the APC-Oyo State, be declared as the only legal congress, with recognition of all the attendant prerequisites,” the forum stated.  Akinremi Feyisipo, Ibadan