Members of the All Progressive Congress (APC) caucus in the House of Representatives on Tuesday endorsed Adams Oshiomhole as APC national chairman. Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader disclosed this while giving update on the over two hours closed door meeting held with the caucus at the National Assembly complex, Abuja. “He (Oshiomhole) came to solicit our support and the result of that solicitation is, as a caucus of APC in the House of Representatives, we believed in him and according to what we call in political lingo, we are more or less have endorsed him for the position of the chairman of the party,” Gbajabiamila said. The meeting was attended by Speaker Yakubu Dogara and other principal officers as well as Deputy Governor of Edo State, Phillip Shuaibu; former member of Representatives, Patrick Obayagbon, among others. Speaking during the closed door meeting, Adams Oshiomhole, pledged his resolve to address all the lingering crisis bedeviling the ruling party at the state level. While reposnding to question on the threat issued by the new PDP group (nPDP) within the ruling party, Oshiomhole said: “I don’t think its a big issue. some people have expressed discontent over one thing or the other. “I think from my own background, when people merited to you to say we want you to address these issues, it means the issues are negotiable. They are ready to discuss, they have an open mind. “If they are not ready to discuss, then there will be no point issuing any ultimatum so you only say I have grievances, these are the grievances and I’m giving you this amount of time to look into the grievances. “For me, that implies commitment to dialogue. The least requirement you need to service the tri-party democracy is the capacity to dialogue rather than monologue. I believe that to that extent they have an open mind and the party’s leadership and the president have open MIMD as well and those issues will be disclosed and resolved,” he assured. Oshiomhole, a two term Governor of Edo state, was favoured by President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of the ruling party, assured all the lawmakers of his resolve to provide quality leadership towards resolving crisis across state level. “I am contesting for this position not because there is a vacuum but because I have been an active member and I am convinced that we need to do somethings different to make our party stronger. “A lot of things happening now in our party, the problems in some states would have been checked if we had an effective party administration. Though we are having issues because we are a progressive party but with a proactive leadership all the issues will be resolved. “They will be resolved in a win-win situation. Every body must get something. I am saying this because even as a governor I have never told a party member who are you. Because if I do that in the day of election I will be in my village and that person will be in his area and he might punish me. “I am convinced that working with leaders of our party, I believe we can build a party that is founded on inclusiveness and not exclusion. A party must argue and resolve amicably no matter the issues. There is no problem that cannot be resolved and we must resolve all our problems as party men and women,” he stated.