The Federal Executive Council, has approved a draft white paper for implementation to enforce the “No work no pay rule”. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, disclosed this on Wednesday, while briefing State House Correspondents after the weekly Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by President Muhammmadu Buhari. Ngige said with the approval of the memo, it is expected that the clause which is contained in section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act would be transmitted to the National Assembly for the necessary action any moment. FEC also approved other reforms contained in the Technical Committee reports on Industrial Relations Matters in Public Service which the government plans to use in checking the excesses of unionists by pegging the tenure union executives can spend. Ngige kicked against top Union executives, especially public service employees from remaining permanently in trade unions. “We have noticed that because of trade union activities, they often refuse postings and redeployment” adding that “have to be a public servant first before you become a trade unionist” “There must be tenure stipulation henceforth, at most , a maximum of two tenure”he said. “ The tenure issues apply only to government employees who are required to deliver service as government workers. Their constitutions must henceforth be redesigned to have tenure limits” FEC approval also cover plans to check private practice by public servants, including “Health professionals in public service, laboratory technologists, teachers in public service, amongst others. The new approval also pegged a maximum of seven years for Medical Doctors to complete their Residency training programs, adding that “ They either pass or leave the service” He recalled that a panel to smoothen industrial relations was inaugurated in April 2016 and submitted its report in October 2017, after which he chaired the committee to draft a White Paper on the report with intent to harmonise contentious or grey areas.
Highlights of the report as approved by FEC include that employers of labour who lock out workers must pay them for the period they didn’t work, while in the public service the no-work-no-pay rule should be applied by employers when they embark on industrial action. It also specifies no more than two-term limits for government employees elected into executive committees of various labour unions to prevent them from using their positions to thwart their original workplace assignments, regulations or transfers and similar duties. The gross abuse of private practice by health officials in full government employment, cases of public school teachers also operating their own private schools, and similar infractions are expected to be addressed Ngige confirmed that the National Tripartite Committee on Minimum Wage has not reached a truce yet on a consensus benchmark for wages. He explained that state governments were still insisting on N20,700 as the least they can afford, while federal government has not shifted ground from N24,000 even though the organized labour have pegged their minimum on N30,000 respectively.  Tony Ailemen, Abuja 