Press Releas ART X LAGOS 2018 BRINGS THE BEST OF CONTEMPORARY AFRICAN ART TO LAGOS THIS NOVEMBER (Strictly embargoed until 1300 CAT Friday 21st September 2018)    Left to right artists to be shown at ART X Lagos 2018: Angela Isiuwe, Saturday Night III (2018), Cyrus Kabiru, Dadab (2017)  18 international galleries exhibiting at ART X Lagos East African artists and galleries exhibiting for the first time at the fair Yinka Shonibare MBE will be the keynote artist in a curated project showcasing his work Works on sale by Africa’s hottest artists: Zanele Muholi, Joy Labinjo, Na Chainkua Reindorf and Cyrus Kabiru Lagos, Nigeria – ART X Lagos, West Africa’s premier international art fair, is delighted to announce the third edition of its annual fair, from Friday 2nd November to Sunday 4th November 2018, holding at The Civic Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. The fair will play host to some of Africa’s most sought-after established and emerging artists, as well as leading galleries. Building on the success of previous editions, which hosted 15,000 visitors collectively, and continuing with its ambition to showcase the best and most innovative contemporary art from the African continent and the diaspora, the 2018 fair will host 18 prestigious galleries from  a variety of countries worldwide, such as: Art House – The Space (Nigeria), Addis Fine Art (Ethiopia), Circle Art Agency (Kenya), Stevenson Gallery (South Africa), Gallery 1957 (Ghana), Tafeta (United Kingdom), Tiwani Contemporary (United Kingdom), Nike Art Gallery (Nigeria), and Out of Africa Gallery (Spain) amongst others. The 18 exhibiting galleries have been chosen by a Selection Committee led by Advisory Board members, N’Goné Fall, the renowned Senegalese curator, art critic and cultural consultant, and Femi Lijadu, one of Nigeria’s most respected art collectors and leading commercial lawyers. As part of its pan-African identity, widening Nigeria’s connection to the contemporary African art world, ART X Lagos is proud to welcome East African artists to the fair for the first time, featuring critically acclaimed artists such as Kenyans Paul Onditi and Cyrus Kabiru.   Speaking at the ART X Lagos 2018 Press Launch, Tokini Peterside, ART X Lagos Founder and Director said, “After the success of ART X Lagos 2017 we are delighted to return for a third edition. We are validated in our decision to develop this vital platform for the growth and increased visibility of African artists and galleries. This would have been impossible without the phenomenal support of the galleries, sponsors and partners, who took a huge leap of faith and committed to support us from ground zero, for which we are most grateful. In six weeks, we will open the doors to ART X Lagos 2018. We look forward to welcoming a vast and varied, local and international audience as we seek to reinforce Lagos’ position as an emergent cultural capital on our continent.”  The Keynote Artist – the fair this year will welcome internationally renowned artist, Yinka Shonibare MBE, as its 2018 keynote artist, who will be celebrated with a highly anticipated exhibition, exploring his career highlights. ART X Talks – this year’s program, curated by Missla Libsekal, features a series of exciting and engaging talks from key stakeholders in Africa’s art economy. ART X Talks will hold on Saturday 3rd November and Sunday 4th November, including a keynote talk with Yinka Shonibare MBE. Interactive Projects – curated by A Whitespace Creative Agency, ART X Lagos 2018 will feature experiential platforms that explore ideas influenced by the exhilarating essence of Lagos. Olalekan Jeyifous and Wale Lawal have created a virtual reality installation, Mad Horse City, which explores a futuristic imagination of Lagos in the year 2115. Meanwhile ‘Lagos Drawings’ is an Interactive Installation, by Karo Akpokiere which combines digital technology, perceptible sounds and visual illustrations inspired by Lagos Textures. The ART X Prize with Access – For the 2018 edition, the Prize evolved to bolster the efforts of emerging artists who have demonstrated a commitment to careers as professional visual artists. Bolatito Aderemi-Ibitola, who emerged as the winner in June 2018, after a rigorous selection process, received a grant of N1 million naira and will have a solo presentation of her project, ‘Scraps from Mama’s Floor’ at this year’s fair. ART X Live!, the live art and music performance, will also make a return this year, featuring some of Africa’s most talented rising artists, curated by Lanre Masha, with Odunsi the Engine as creative director. The show will see performances by Teni the Entertainer, Ghanaian musician Amaarae, and BOJ, accompanied by some of Lagos’ finest emerging visual and graphic artists. The theme this year invites guests to indulge in an electric exploration of Africa’s rich musical history with a celebration of our heroes past – the icons, legends and sounds that have shaped the continent’s contemporary musical landscape. ART X Lagos 2018 is made possible by the generous, committed support of its sponsors, which include thus far – Access Bank (Gold Sponsor); Ford Foundation (Diversity and Education Sponsor); Stanbic IBTC Pensions, H2Oh!, Anap Jets and Chapel Hill Denham (Bronze Sponsors); Lufthansa, Absolut, Budweiser, Leadway Assurance and Metro Capital (Category Sponsors).  ART X Lagos was founded by Tokini Peterside and is also supported by an Advisory Board comprised of – Labi Ogunbiyi, Dudun Peterside, Evelyn Oputu, Fatima Wali-Abdurrahman, Femi Lijadu, Jess Castellote, Junaid Dikko, N’Goné Fall, Papa Omotayo and Reni Folawiyo.  — ENDS —  Notes to Press  ABOUT ART X LAGOS: Launched in 2016, ART X Lagos is West Africa’s first international art fair which was created to showcase the best and most innovative contemporary art from the African continent and diaspora, and to widen Nigeria’s connection to the art scene across Africa and internationally. Through its contribution to the increased visibility of African artists, ART X Lagos aims to reinforce the visual arts as an important component of the creative industry in Nigeria and Africa, and to position Lagos as an emergent cultural capital on the continent. Visit www.artxlagos.com for more.  NOTE: This release has been tailored to suit print media i.e. art pages of newspapers or magazines. 