Come October 30th and 31st 2018, at the Harbour Point, Victoria Island,Lagos will play host to the inaugural edition of Art Summit Nigeria, a first-of-its-kind, annual educational gathering of panel talks, an experiential exhibition and workshops for Nigeria’s creative economy. Themed, “The Future of Art: Artist as the Nucleus”, the Summit will be a platform for robust discourse amongst stakeholders and actors in Nigeria’s visual art industry to strategize on how to reposition Nigeria in the international art landscape and boost its creative economy. The Summit will be opened by a keynote speech by the Vice President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Professor Yemi Osibanjo. Also speaking is the Honourable Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed. The Vice President will be following up on the government’s engagement with the art industry including a landmark art exhibition at the State House in 2016 and supporting Nigeria’s debut pavilion at the biggest art exhibition in the world, the Venice Biennale in 2017. The panels will focus on amongst others: how Nigeria may build institutions for the future, will attract the world to our shores to see how we document, preserve art; how budding collectors may engage with artists and build collections and  how artists can be catalysts for socio-political change. Leading the panel is an all-star cast of stakeholders across the continent and including Prince Yemisi Shyllon, one of the biggest art collectors on the African continent, Victor Ehikhamenor, Nigerian writer and visual artist who represented Nigeria at the Venice Biennale 2017, Nnena Okore&Ibrahim Mahama, accomplished sculptors, Ugochukwu-Smooth Nzewi, curator of African art at the Cleveland museum of Art, U.S.A., Ntone Edjabe, Cameroonian writer and founding editor of Chimurenga Magazine, recent winners of the 2018–20 Jane Lombard Prize for Art and Social Justice. A keynote panel will feature Azu Nwagbogu, curator of the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art in conversation with Kehinde Wiley, Nigerian-American contemporary artist and portrait painter of President Barack Obama, engaging the Nigerian art community about his practice for the first time. According to Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, Head Corporate Communication and Marketing at Union Bank, main sponsors of the event; “We are pleased to be supporting the Art Summit, an initiative that seeks to build cultural hallmarks that will stand the test of time”. As a 100-year old institution with a rich heritage, preserving and enriching our culture is important to us as we also continue to support and develop local talent in the creative space.” The experiential exhibition, in partnership with SAMSUNG NIGERIA will be an unprecedented showcase of how art and technology can be merged, expanding the possibilities of experimentation and innovation, how art is seen, felt, experienced. On view will be soundscapes, video projections, 4D animation, and site-specific installations. Featured in the show will be projections by Nigerian born, US based filmmaker Andrew Dosunmu; Ink-jet canvases by Kenyan painter Paul Onditi; and Cameroon-born, Belgian-raised artist, Eric Van Hove exhibiting another series in his years-long artistic practice of marrying art, engineering and technology. Keeping in mind the need to highlight the voice of women, the summit will also include a new work by RahimaGambo, whose poetic turn towards survival amidst Boko Haram has circled the globe in the last year, along with projections by Dandelion Eghosa from Lagos, Nkiruka J. Oparah from San Francisco, and Gladys Kalichini from Lusaka, Zambia. The workshops provide designed spaces for artists, university art students, and educators to explore new methodologies and engage with new technologies. The classes will include environment art practicals with artists will learning to create 3 dimensional works/installations using objects and materials from the environment; independent art curating; providing aspiring curators with curatorial toolkits for independent practice. The Art Summit is sponsored by Union Bank, Samsung Nigeria, the United States of America Consulate, DOKA, Aluko &Oyebode, Taxify, Sofitel Moorhouse, Angels and Muse, Legacy Serviced Offices, Main One Cable and RDF Communications. The Summit is supported by media partners: BusinessDay Newspaper, Art News Africa, Art Africa Magazine, The Sole Adventurer Magazine, Ocean Africa, Funny Africa, Nothing to Do in Lagos and Farabale Africa. For more information on the Art Summit Nigeria visit www.artsummitng.org and follow the conversation with  on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook at @artsummitng. 