Federal Executive Council FEC on Wednesday approved a leather policy fir the country aimed at improving the industry’s contributions to the economy. Nigeria currently is the 2nd leather exporter in Africa and number eight in the world, generating over 931 million U. S. D in revenue to the country’s purse. This is just as the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed revealed that the Federal Executive Council, FEC has directed the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory FCT, Mohammed Bello to work with his security team on the recent Shiites protests in the FCT He stated that the matter was discussed at the FEC meeting where the directive was given “This came up for discussion, the Hon. Minister of fct was asked to take up the matter with his own security committee” The leather policy, is expected to reduce loses in the industry as more of the leather will now be processed into finished products , rather than the current raw exports with very poor income. The policy will amongst other things curtail illegal raw leather exports, while enhancing value addition to improve economic gains Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu disclosed this while briefing State House Correspondents after the weekly Federal Executive Council FEC meeting presided over by President Muhamamdu Buhari The National leather and leather products policy will enable government attract more investment into the sector, as well as harness the country’s leather resources. According to the Minister, “ this will allow us make more gains instead of exporting raw leather or semi finished products. We want to prepare our nation so that we can process our leather and use the leather in production of finished leather products.” Nigeria’s rich leather industry is said to be the second largest in Africa representing 46% and 18% of total in West Africa and Africa, respectively “Almost every sector of our economic life is affected , including footwear, apparels and automobile industry.
“ There is hardly any machine that you will open without finding leather component. This is the only we can create more jobs and a lot of wealths. We would be in a position to fight poverty.”, he said The country also has a huge comparative advantage in the industry due to the cheap cost of Labour. “As far as light leather is concerned , we are number two in Africa and number 8 in terms of exporting leather in the world. If we harness the leather we have in Nigeria and if we process our hides and skins, we will be creating a lot of jobs and wealth because of the small scale enterprises that will spring up. You will now be having new business springing up. President Buhari is very much interest in sense ring that those who want to work can work. “In terms of contributions, leather contributes almost $921m to our economy, as at 2013. There was a time leather was number three in terms of contributions from the non- oil sector. We believe that leather will help us achieve much to the economy” He also revealed that government was doing research to reduce the health hazards associated with processing hides and skin Federal Ministry of Science and Technology runs a Leather Research Institute in Zaria, with responsibilities of conducting researches in the various segments of the leather industry “ We use certain chemicals and you have to find away to treat before you can discharge them into any water source. A percentage of the waste will be what is environmentally acceptable.
“They are working on that at the moment. We are very much aware of that because we have ternaries at the moment. We want to make that our people are safe. 