Oyigbo, the entry point into oil-rich Rivers State from Abia State axis, may have emerged as Nigeria centre of wasted assets and home to worst roads in Nigeria. The boisterous town is now underlined by rotten avenues that now form a network of decayed roads. Investors are said to be fleeing from the area in droves while income to businesses are seen to dry up fast, all due to impassable spaces known to be roads once. Embattled residents have however appealed to Gov. Nyesom Wike, Rivers State governor, who is known as ‘Mr. Projects’, to help the people of the area by putting his appellation and his awards as ‘Mr. Projects’ into action to rescue Oyigbo. Every four years, residents say they hear new promises of a greater tomorrow on road matter but after elections, the roads seem to get worse, and even collapse. Citizens now first trace spaces to walk to the Aba Road Expressway to get out of the decay and trapped town. They find their way back every evening through muddy passageways that serve as signpost of neglect and rejection. Three out of every three residents in Oyigbo see themselves as ‘Biafrans’ anyway, and when you press them, they point to the swamps called roads as their gift from Nigeria. Neglect seems to be the sign-post of the Oyigbo psyche, probably fueling unrest, unruly behaviours and tendency to behave like Biafra agitators of IPOB mentality.   Residents of Oyigbo a Local Government in Rivers State seek the intervention of the State Government on the poor state of roads in the city. The biggest change that the area seems to have enjoyed since 1976 when the Nasir Commission carved them out of old Imo State into Rivers State appears to be the change of name from Obigbo to Oyigbo, a change that makes it sound non-Igbo. Oyigbo, however, is one of the developing cities in Rivers State, due to high volume of construction of residential houses by families fleeing from high house rent in Port Harcourt. Also, the Garden City seems to be bounded on three sides by water bodies, leaving Oyigbo as the free zone for expansion. This is conurbation looks fast approaching between Rivers and Abia states on Oyigbo axis, except the Imo River that stands between them. This fast expansion is badly halted due to the nature of its roads. Now, it seems like development has ceased. Obigbo roads are interconnected right from Afam Road down to the Federal Road (expressway) leading to Eleme in Port Harcourt Junction. Lamentation seems to be their portion and curses now form a new chorus on the lips of Oyigbo residents. This was demonstrated when BD Sunday came calling for interviews last week. The residents in separate interviews lamented on the decayed road network that is their dividend o democracy, although some local government officials have pointed to what they said was being done by the Wike administration. The dominant message from across the rejected zone seems to bad roads and how this is preventing them from effectively embarking on of their day-to-day activities. Samuel Ojinka, a bus driver, lamented in an interview that due to the decayed roads, he takes longer routes from Afam in Obigbo to Port Harcourt, a journey that is not meant to exceed an hour now taking up to three hours. This, he said, consumes more fuel and increases the cost of running the vehicle as a business unit, ferrying cursing commuters out of Oyigbo daily. “The situation of the road has got worse to the extent that traffic is bad. Most times the traffic gets so bad, that I park my car along Timber Bus-stop at a friend’s place and trek back to Afam Road,” he said. He appealed to Government to come to the aid of Oyigbo residents over these abandoned roads. Confidence Okechukwu, a trader in the popular Obigbo Main Market blamed bad roads for grisly incidents and accidents. She stated that the state of the roads is not only a major factor on high cost of items and transportation in the area. “Being a trader who deals on fresh tomatoes I have suffered more loss than gain since last year. Most of my customers who come from far places do not make it to my shop anymore due to the situation of the road. Normally, I sell up to six baskets of tomatoes but now I am unable to sale up to two’’. In the same vein, Chukwuma Ekeduro who deals on ladies wears complained that as much as the roads were bad during rainy season, it is not better in dry season, either. “We experience a lot of misfortunes and challenges during rainy seasons, but the dry season is not better. This is because the clothes displayed as samples get dusty before it’s taken inside in such situation. The clothes get bad and can’t be sold and we suffer losses. Most times, I am unable to sell up to N10,000 a day and this year has been my worst experience on sales,” he said. A landlord, Success Okorobia, stated that the roads became worse due to road construction works. “The past governor (Chibuike Amaechi, never remembered Oyigbo and their roads, but Governor Wike is doing well. We believe he has projects assigned to people in order to take care of the roads and we believe and hope for a better change,” he said. A high chief, Godson Chukwudi Onyegorom, the counselor representing Ward Nine in Obigbo Local Government Area, in an interview, seemed to agree with Okorobia. He stated that development started in Oyigbo some six months to one year ago when Governor Nyesom Wike visited Oyigbo and made a firm promise to its residents that Eleme-Oyigbo Road, Iriebe-Obiakpor-Oyigbo Road, and Express-Roundabout Road, would be fixed before the return of political campaigns, which is here again. The counselor said: “The roads are a huge factor to the development of the city and before then, the dilapidated roads, buildings, businesses, economy of the city collapsed but because of the reconstruction of the roads, everything has started again’’. He explained that Gerald Oforji, the executive chairman of Oyigbo Local Council, was doing well because though his administration is less than two months old. He said that the roads being a major inconvenience to the people would in no time be put to use again. Others interviewed said the local government and the state must work hand-in-hand to save the Oyigbo economy, with the local council contributing its quota in rehabilitating the roads in the area.