The Spanish league’s biggest and most anticipated club match, the El Clasico, will be aired live to GOtv MAX subscribers. Barcelona, the defending LaLiga champions, host eternal rivals, Real Madrid, at the Camp Nou, on Sunday, 28 October, 2018. The game, which will be the 177th encounter between both teams, will be broadcast live exclusively on SuperSport Select 4 (channel 34) at 4:15 pm. The two giants will renew their famous rivalry in unfamiliar circumstances. For Barcelona, this will be the first time that Andres Iniesta, their former captain, will not feature in the El Clasico in over a decade, following his movement to the Japanese league. Also, for the first time since 2007, Barcelona’s current skipper, Lionel Messi, will be absent from El Clasico after suffering a broken right arm in his team’s game against Sevilla. Real Madrid will also be missing Cristiano Ronaldo, their iconic goalscorer and dominant feature for nine seasons, having moved to Italian giants, Juventus, during the summer transfer window. This will also be the first El Clasico for Real Madrid under Julen Lopetegui, a former player of the club and former Spanish national team manager, who replaced Zinedine Zidane at Real Madrid. Lopetegui is, however, under pressure arising from the team’s failure to record a victory in five games in all competitions before their UEFA Champions League victory over Viktoria Plzen on Wednesday. Of the nine games so far played, Barcelona have won five, drawn three, lost one and are second on the log behind Sevilla. Real Madrid are seventh after winning four, drawing two and losing three games respectively. But form rarely matters in the El Clasico, as it is a game that thrives on passion and near-tribal rivalry. Subscribers who upgrade to the GOtv MAX package will have access to El Clasico and also explore unlimited fun of world class channels such as FOX, ROK2, Star Life, BET, CBS Reality, SuperSport Select 4 including the newly added BET and SuperSport Select 5. 