More criticisms have continued to trail the travel ban imposed on 50 high profile Nigerians by President Muhammadu Buhari, this is just as the Leader of Pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Ruben Fasoranti, and the Lagos State chairman of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) Tunde Ademola, have criticised the move, describing it as an attempt to drag the country back to the military era and capable of increasing the rising tension in the country. Recall that President Buhari in a statement last Saturday ordered the placement of 50 high profile Nigerians on watch list, banning them from travelling out of the country pending the determination of their corruption cases in court. The president had said the measure was part of the implementation of Executive Order Number 6 which seeks to ensure “that all assets within a minimum value of N50 million or equivalent, subject to investigation or litigation are protected from dissipation by employing all available lawful means, pending the final determination of any corruption-related matter But speaking yesterday in separate interviews with BusinessDay, the leaders, stated that the president’s action was an attempt to take over the function of the judiciary, they wondered why several chieftains of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) who are close associates of the President were missing from the list if he was serious about the anti-graft war. Leader of Afenifere, Fasoranti expressed surprised that the current administration could initiate such order months to the general election, adding that such action portend danger for the country at this time. “What the president has done is very bad; there is no justification for such in a democracy, why is he taking over the function of the Judiciary? Let them be placed on house arrest instead; it is then we would know what is in our hand. “I am surprised that he is doing this at this period, some months to the general election, it is not good. What about the people in his government who have been accused of being corrupt, they are walking, traveling freely, what has he done to them?” Fasoranti said. Tunde Ademola, ADC chairman, said that the party was surprised by the President action, stressing that it was now obvious that the APC was jittery ahead of the general election because it had performed woefully. Ademola challenged the President to explain to the country what his administration had done to several individuals accused of being corrupt in his administration. “It is a move to silence the opposition by the APC, it is obvious they have failed and they are afraid of losing the elections that is the reason for all this. “However, we are back to the military era, when we had illegal detention and house arrest, it is taking us back and we would move agents it,” Ademola said.  Iniobong Iwok 