Head of Service of the Federation, Winifred Oyo-Ita, says the ongoing reforms in the civil service will boost revenue generation for government. According to Oyo-Ita, the reforms are aimed at developing entrepreneurial culture and commercial orientation in the service making it compulsory for Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs to explore commercial opportunities to generate revenue for government. The Head of Service who stated this in a panel discussion on effective public institutions at the ongoing National Economic Summit in Abuja stressed that as implementers of government policies and programmes, civil service has to be reformed for effective and efficient service delivery. She said the Nigerian civil service was being reformed in line with global best practice of integrity, openness, capability and innovations and make the civil servants meet with the demands of their jobs in the 21st Century where service delivery is technology driven. Oyo-Ita observed that, “for so long the civil service has been seen as a call centre. We don’t bring any thing to the table so what happened was that in each budget our votes keep getting cut because the question is what are they doing. For all the MDAs look at commercial aspect that can generate revenue for government to make us more relevant.”
She also said, “There is a direct correlation between an efficient and effective civil service and a very highly productive and a very ranking economic out put of that country”. “The way we have programmes in the civil service it will definitely affect the economy of that country and that is really the truth of the situation we found ourselves in Nigeria.” The Head of Civil Service recalled that she met a disillusioned civil service, which prompted her to evolve the Federal Civil Service Strategy and Implementation plan 2016 to 2017, saying it has started yielding results.
“It is an internally generated reform that comes from within the service. It has been bought into the civil service and all the unions. That is the platform for the success that we are beginning to enjoy. “We believe that they need to start on a new ethos; to look at service that you can create, service that is effective, efficient, productive, incorruptible and citizen centered because these were the four things that were apparently lacking in the civil service. “We have been accused of inefficiency, being highly unproductive, high rate of corruption and being extremely selfish. Then we have four goals to develop and institutionalised an epic civil service to change the culture and the mindset of civil servants. “To develop and institutionalised an enterprise content management system. To change the way we do things to change into the 21st Century, to become more digital,” she stated Oyo-Ita announced that to achieve the reform of training and retraining of civil service for higher productivity, 140 staff are being trained across Ministries, Departments and Agencies under the train the trainers scheme to step retrain their colleagues for effectiveness. She announced that by 2020 the Federal Civil Service going by the current reforms would be fully automated with the human resource data management greatly improved. According to her, the service has so far saved between N60 -12 billion from cleaning human resources data on the IP system, N2.5 billion from digitizing contents and 25, 000 civil servants trained through free training method.
The Head of Service further said, to overcome the recurring challenge of ghost workers, personnel register has been screened in all Ministries and Parastatals in the Federal Capital Territory while arrangements have been concluded to carry out the exercise in all states of the Federation. 