Outgoing Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State has dismissed the insinuations he may not fully support Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s campaign after he (Ambode) lost the All Progressives Congress (APC) governor ticket to Sanwo-Olu in the October 2, primary election. Ambode said on Tuesday that he would campaign vigorously for the APC’s flag bearer to ensure that the party secure victory in Lagos and continue the legacy of progressives in Nigeria’s richest state. The governor also assured of commitment to seeing to the success of President Muhammadu Buhari in February 2019 presidential election. To douse tension on the rumour that has been making the rounds that the Lagos State House of Assembly was planning to impeach Ambode, the speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, had dismissed the rumour, adding however, that whether or not the governor would be impeached before serving out his tenure in May 2019, would depend on his actions. But Ambode, who spoke with journalists at the Presidential Wing of the Muritala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, after he accompanied President Buhari to perform the official commissioning of the new Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Seme-Krake joint border post in Badagry, said it was important for the APC to retain leadership positions in Lagos and at the federal level and therefore would support the man he lost the primary election to. “I am committed to ensuring that the APC wins the governorship election come 2019. We support the candidacy of Babajide Sanwo-Olu and we would make sure that APC retains Lagos State and the centre,” Ambode said. The governor, who also pledged commitment to the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari, said: “I have just accompanied Mr. President to the Nigerian-Benin Border Post. What we have commissioned today is a joint border patrol post between Nigeria and the Republic of Benin and it is called Semo-Krake Border Post. “But again, it’s important to let Lagosians know that we are committed to the re-election of Mr. President and you can see that his continuous visit to Lagos reiterates the fact that he is a lover of Lagos State and I am committed to ensuring his re-election.” Ambode had earlier received President Buhari at the airport before the duo proceeded to Seme where the President joined his Republic of Benin counterpart, Patrice Talon to inaugurate the Border Post. With the inauguration, the Seme-Krake joint border, one of the busiest boundary lines not only in West Africa but the whole continent, daily recording huge movement of persons, goods and services, is expected to enhance the free movement of persons and goods in the region and foster integration between the people of Nigeria and Benin. 