Fashion is a kinetic force like no other and consumers’ growing appetite for fashion ensures direct labour in the fashion value chain have work. The last one-year has arguably been the fashion industry’s most lucrative when it comes to female empowerment. Ensuring the gains translate to fair wages and economic mobility for women at the lowest rung of the fashion industry must remain top of agenda for ethical fashion enthusiasts. By joining forces, through Adara x TAN by Tiffany Amber, Adara Foundation and TAN by Tiffany Amber demonstrate how women can join forces to create significant market opportunities for low-income women. The collection features a selection of styles by TAN, which utilizes a delicate blend of modern sophistication and glamour, offered at the right price point. All the textiles used in the collection were painstakingly designed, hand painted and printed by 24 women who as a result of the collaboration are benefiting improved income and hopefully broader markets for their skills and textiles. Through EWARE (Empowering Women in Arts and Related Enterprises), Adara Foundation trains financially challenged women to be skilled artisans, knowledgeable about and able to produce and trade profitably in the best quality adire, tie and dye and batik paint . EWARE women are trained by some of the leading textile artists in Nigeria. Over 200 women have been trained since the program launch in 2017. Adara was founded in 2015 and has impacted over 6,000 families through its skills acquisition development and access to health and education programs. TAN by Tiffany Amber is the diffusion line of the iconic African lifestyle brand, Tiffany Amber. TAN aims to be more accessible to women and girls across Africa while still carrying the heritage of the anchor brand, Tiffany Amber. TAN mixes a blend of modern designs with the culture and creativity of our fast growing continent by sourcing locally produced inputs and partnering with local and African artists and artisans to deliver fashionable and culturally authentic products. Tiffany Amber and Adara Foundation share a common goal in deepening the fashion industry in Nigeria by creating a platform for creative fabric design led by women.  The Adara X TAN by Tiffany Amber Nigeria line launch event is proudly supported by the following women led organizations — Wott to Eat, The Event Design Studio, Creative Accents and Koko’s Cookies. 