There was tension in the Edo State House of Assembly on Monday as members of the House impeached its deputy speaker, Victor Edoror, representing Esan Central Constituency.
As early as 8 am, the premises of the Assembly had been taken over by combined armed security personnel made up of Department of State Security, mobile policemen and men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) while hefty and fierce looking suspected political thugs positioned themselves at strategic locations within the premises.
It was gathered that the presence of the security personnel was to forestall possible impeachment of the speaker of the House over alleged legal suit instituted against APC as a result of the alleged substitution of his name with that of Peter Akpatason by the national leadership of the party.
Chief Whip of the House, Osaigbovo Iyoha (APC), representing Oredo East Constituency, who moved the motion for the impeachment, said the deputy speaker was impeached over alleged misappropriation of funds, corruption and act of desperation tantamount to causing division in the House.
The motion was seconded by Emmanuel Agbaje (APC), representing Akoko-Edo II.
Iyoha said the letter of impeachment was signed by 16 members of the House.
But efforts by the Foly Ogedengbe (APC), representing Owan East Constituency to move counter-motion ended in vain as the speaker refused to recognise him.
Ogedengbe, however, accused the speaker of the House, Kabiru Adjoto (APC), representing Akoko-Edo I, of embezzling funds amounting to about N100 million belonging to the House.
The impeachment of the deputy speaker, however, resulted in rowdiness as the embattled deputy speaker seized the mace of the House.
The House speaker, however, announced the suspension of the impeached deputy speaker, Foly Ogedengbe and Gani Audu (APC), representing Etsako West I, for unruly behaviour for three months, respectively.
Roland Asoro, majority leader of the House, nominated the former speaker of the House, Justine Okonobo, as the new deputy speaker and seconded by Emmanuel Agbaje.
The premises of the House was however invaded and taken over by suspected political thugs who were armed with sticks after the adjournment of plenary session by the lawmakers. 