Oyingbo, a popular commercial cum residential community in Lagos, is undergoing transformation that will see it emerge as a modern commercial and transportation hub.  Oyingbo over the years had been a dirty and disorderly settlement where urchins, popularly called ‘area boys’, displayed dexterity in pilfering and harassment of commuters within and around the old (now demolished) Oyingbo Motor Park. But this old order is gradually giving way, and Lagosians are excited about the new development.  A visit to Oyingbo shows a modern bus terminal rising from what used to be a disorganised motor park. It is coming with state-of-the-art facilities that will compare and compete with its kind anywhere in the world.  When completed, the Oyingbo Bus Terminal which is part of the Bus Reform Initiative (BRI) of the outgoing administration of Akinwunmi Ambode will be the biggest terminal in Nigeria’s commercial centre.   Situated along the Muritala Mohammed Way, the imposing structure, which is nearing completion, will sure be a beauty to behold, and a statement of Ambode’s audacity in governance.  It is located in the heart of Oyingbo; sharing boundaries with Iddo, Yaba and Ijora/Costain corridor. It is one of the major terminals conceived, designed and constructed to redefine public transportation and align Lagos with modern trend globally.  Others have been completed and ready for public use with some of the 800 high capacity buses ordered by the government already arriving the state and awaiting flag off of operation.  Other terminals already completed include Ikeja, Yaba, and TBS on Lagos Island.  Facilities being installed at the Oyingbo Bus Terminal designed as a hub for commerce and transportation include ticketing boot, relaxation spot, an eatery, free wifi, modern restrooms, among others.  The facility will provide modern buses for travellers within and outside Lagos, as it is centrally located to help commuters connect other parts of the state such as Ijora, CMS, Ikeja, Orile, Yaba, Okokomaiko, Badagry among others.  Buses, according to officials, will also to be available for trips outside Lagos, to north, south-east and south-south parts of the country.  Habib Aruna, the chief press secretary to Ambode, told BD Sunday that the governor would deliver the project before his exit from government in May 2019. “Governor is Ambode is committed to this project,” said Aruna   