Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom State has announced that Moses Ekpo, the current deputy governor will be his running mate in next year’s governorship election. There were speculations that the governor would drop Ekpo in favour of a younger candidate but the decision of the Governor to retain Ekpo did not however come as a surprise given the new political landscape in the state. Ekpo, a veteran journalist hails from Akwa Ibom north east senatorial district and was believed to have been nominated by the former senate minority leader for the position. Analysts say the retention of the deputy governor would forestall any plan of defection if he had been dropped and would also appease the people of the old Abak local government who might have felt marginalised. Emmanuel who broke the news at an emergency meeting of the state caucus of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the decision was informed by  Ekpo’s well-grounded ability for service delivery, performance and loyalty. Governor Emmanuel who described Ekpo as a befitting deputy noted that he remains one of the reliable persons who has added  value to the Divine Mandate Campaign Organisation as well as the success of the present administration. The deputy governor in his acceptance acknowledged the tremendous support he has received from the governor in the course of his work.  He thanked the governor and the party for the confidence reposed in him to go into the 2019 race as the running mate to the governor and further assured that he would acquit himself of the onerous responsibility that goes with such endorsement. Ekpo called on all members of the PDP  in the state to be united in working towards the success of all the party’s candidates in the forthcoming elections. Before coming on board as the running mate to Governor Udom Emmanuel in 2015,  Ekpo was the federal commissioner representing Akwa Ibom State at the National Population Commission, Abuja. A renowned journalist,  he had served severally as a federal director of information,  as a diplomat, former Director-General of the Nigerian Copyright Commission and erstwhile President of the General Assembly of the World Intellectual Property Organization, WIPO, as well as the pioneer Commissioner for Information, Social Development, Youth, Sports and Culture in Akwa Ibom State.