Federal Government on Wednesday confirmed its resolve to reconvene the negotiation on the new national minimum wage on Thursday, 4th October, 2018.
The negotiation is expected to end on Friday, 5th October, 2018.
The meeting is scheduled to take place at Transcorp Hilton hotel, Abuja, by 10:30am, BusinessDay can report authoritatively.
Recall that the organised labour had on Sunday announced the suspension of the seven day warning strike declared to demand for the conclusion of the negotiation, which was allegedly adjourned sine die by the Minister at the twilight of considering the new wage for Nigerian workers.
Speaking on behalf of the three labour centres: Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC), Ayuba Wabba, NLC President explained that the warning strike was suspended sequel to the “firm and formal invitation to a reconvened meeting of the Tripartite Committee scheduled for 4th and 5th of October, 2018. “We demand that this shall be the final session of the committee and that a final report will be submitted to Mr. President immediately. “In order to avail the committee the necessary conducive environment to hold its crucial meeting and conclude its work, organised labour has, after obtaining the mandate of their necessary organs, decided to suspend the strike action with effect from today, Sunday, September 30th, 2018.” To this end, the Congress urged all its affiliates and state councils to “maintain a high level of mobilization and readiness until the struggle for a reasonable minimum wage is achieved,” Wabba said. He however noted that the Tripartite Committee chaired by Ama Pepple, should immediately submit the final report on the new Minimum Wage to President Muhammadu Buhari immediately. While noting that the crisis trailing the ongoing negotiation was unprecedented, the NLC chieftain expressed optimism that necessary actions will be taken to fast-track the process. “The next level is from the Executive before it goes to the National Assembly. Because after the promulgation the next level is the implementation. And therefore this is the first time we are having issues around the issue of completing the work of the committee. In the past it is adjourning of implementation that we had issues. “We have also made it clear that any governor that does not pay salaries as at when due, because its about issues of priority we have noted beyond reasonable doubt that workers will not continue to support them. “We have sufficient laws but the laws are violated and when the laws are violated do we continue to lament, no. We must continue to engage the process. It is not about law, but about practice and procedure. Its about priority, what do we prioritize? In other jurisprudence, they prioritize worker’s salary for workers to get their pay to earn a living. and nobody works for the sake of it.” He also warned that State Governors with dissenting voice to the ongoing negotiation to explain to the workers and pensioners why he could not afford to pay the new minimum wage rather than making such pronouncement in Abuja. According to him: “some Governors have agreed to pay the agreed minimum wage. “If the governor does not accept to pay the agreed minimum wage, which is legal, let him go back to his state not to make pronouncement in Abuja. “Let him go back to your state and tell the workers. Gather them and pensioners and their families that I am committed to the minimum wage and therefore this is the position of my state. And since many of them have change their language, to say that minimum wage is desirable and that once it is approved it is going to be implemented.”  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 