A group under the auspices of Niger Delta Peace Coalition (NDPC) has warned former governor of Anambra state, Mr. Peter, to stay clear from Alhaji Atiku Abubakar saying Atiku will use and dump him. The group said “Mr Peter Obi, is too decent to be the running mate of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar.” National Coordinator, NPDC, Mr Paul Gbemre who spoke to BussinessDay in Warri on Sunday, described the choice of Peter Obi, the running mate of Alhaji Atiku, as two opposites. “Atiku is a complete opposite of Peter Obi. Atiku will accommodate him but it is just to climb the political ladder, that is if they are elected, which I doubt because of how Atiku used dollars to buy delegates votes at the PDP primaries in Port Harcourt, and his unpleasant past record, which his former boss, Obasanjo stated clearly in his well circulated videos and his publication called MY WATCH,” Gbemre noted. He said though Peter Obi is a good administrator, technocrat and politician, his alliance with Alhaji Atiku will destroy the good image he had created for himself over the years. Gbemre said, “However, I love Obi for his exceptional quality as a good leader, if elected and given the right power to lead Nigerians. But the truth is that I am not comfortable with his recent connections with Atiku, whom we know would only like to use him to climb the ladder of political power because of his integrity. “The desperation by former Governor Peter Obi to team up with Atiku to get power is faulty. Those hailing him for accepting to team up with Atiku are not helping him, but they are only encouraging him to destroy his good name, which he took years to build.” The NPDC coordinator added that Peter Obi ought to have stayed clear from Atiku and PDP as a whole, saying “somebody like Atiku would not give Peter Obi the freedom and opportunity to carry out anything good and concrete in governance.” Continuing, Gbemre said, “In politics, there are no permanent enemies, but permanent interests. But Peter Obi’s interest is not same with Atiku, judging by Obi’s past good records. “Peter obi is a prudent politician, unlike Atiku. In my own view, Peter Obi got it all wrong with this political move with Atiku as his running mate. “Peter Obi should think above bearing political titles. That is the way I see it. There is an adage that says birds of the same feathers flock together. And another adage says show me your friends and I will tell you who you are. “Peter Obi is too decent for this political connections/affiliation with Atiku. Peter Obi is a decent Nigerian statesman that was prudent in his administration as a Governor and he avoided waste of public wealth to build evident infrastructure in his Anambra State. Why accept to be with these bunch of carefree politicians who have no conscience for the Nigerian people? “Though, Obasanjo made a u-turn and endorsed Atiku, after all their talks, negotiations and begging. But the truth is that the image of Atiku and Peter Obi are opposites, and I feel pained for Peter Obi not to have done a lot of brainstorming and consultations before going into this alliance with Atiku.”  Francis Sadhere, Warri 