Over the years, analysts have discovered that a positive relationship exists between foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows and Gross Domestic Product (GDP). In the past two decades, FDI has become a significant component of GDP and an important source of foreign capital for the emerging and frontier markets. This is mainly attributed to financial markets liberalization, economic and financial globalization. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) defines frontier markets as those countries closest to resembling emerging markets in terms of depth and openness of financial markets and access to international sovereign bond markets while emerging markets comprise countries closest to resembling advanced markets. FDI inflows are investment made directly by foreign investors in an economy, including transfer of funds to physical capital, techniques of production, managerial and marketing expertise, products, advertising and business practices for the maximization of global profits. Colossal gap exists between the developed and under-developed economies; this gap is seen in their various financial and physical assets that create wealth. Low investment depreciates capital stock, which in turn leads to low productivity and income. It therefore becomes pertinent for the under-developed economies to pave way for foreign capital to boost their GDP and enhance economic development. Examining FDI and GDP trends in emerging and frontier markets Since 1990, FDI inflow to emerging and frontier markets witnessed an upward shift. Morgan Stanley Capital Investment (MSCI)’s classification of economies into emerging and frontier markets was utilized by BusinessDay Research and Intelligence Unit (BRIU) to compile data from the World Bank. An examination of the data showed that from 2002 to 2008, FDI inflows witnessed an average growth rate of 24 per cent alongside increased nominal GDP within the same period. Specifically, the period between 2002 and 2003 saw a marginal jump in FDI by US$158bn to US$161bn in 2003.  The upward trend in both FDI inflows and nominal GDP was sustained till 2008 with a value of US$681bn as total FDI inflows into emerging and frontier markets. The increase in FDI inflow according to Danubius University of Galati, Romania, in their research work, was stimulated by the changes in government policies and strategies. With changes in policies, the emerging and frontier markets managed to attract important share of the total FDI, providing investors major opportunities to expand their businesses which further enhance their GDP. FDI inflow crumbled following the aftermath of the 2008/2009 global financial crises. By 2009, the FDI inflow to emerging and frontier markets crashed by 40 per cent from US$681bn to US$409bn. “The crisis went beyond affecting the financial sector to having negative impact on the real economy,” the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), declared in its 2009 investment brief. “The evidence of the negative impacts of the financial crisis on FDI was seen in the strict credit conditions and reduced corporate profits; which led to a decline in corporations’ capability to finance their foreign investments. The fear of risk reduced investors’ business confidence and corporations’ willingness to expand globally,” UNCTAD said.  Sources: World Bank, BRIU  Subsequently after the 2008/2009 global crisis, emerging and frontier markets’ nominal GDP witnessed significant increase up till 2014. Foreign direct investments also recorded significant increase between 2010 and 2012 but dropped slightly in 2012. It rose in 2013 but fell in 2014.  From 2014 to 2015, the trend in nominal GDP and FDI inflow to emerging and frontier markets decreased simultaneously (due to weak commodity prices especially for the frontier markets) and both rose slightly in 2016. “Economic activity is expected to pick up the pace in 2017 and 2018, especially in emerging markets,” IMF’s noted in their January 2017 outlook.  What drives FDI growth? The vast increase in the inflow of FDI to emerging and frontier markets in recent years is fuelled by many factors. The rise in multinational corporations, hunt for global profits, the economic and global capital markets liberalization have been the drivers of FDI in emerging and frontier markets. Research findings on the determinants of FDI inflow show that the cost structures, differential returns, market growth, government policies and institutional characteristics of host countries are of prime importance. This is because companies wishing to invest in foreign economies consider favourable trade and investment regime, good infrastructure, property rights, political and macro-economic stability as well as an educated and committed workforce. Most of the determinants also depend on the capacity of the host countries to absorb investment opportunities, which in turn subject to their growth prospects and trade openness. Nigeria FDI Inflow: Value still below 2008 highs Since the advent of democracy in 1999, Nigeria has embarked on measures necessary to attract foreign investors. Such strategies to boost FDI inflow include revoking laws that are adverse to foreign investment growth, and signing investment laws and bilateral agreements with other nations. However, given that FDI figures were expressed in dollar, BRIU used the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s end-year exchange rate for the 11-year period (2007 – 2017) to convert it into its naira equivalent. Nigeria’s real GDP recorded a steady increase from N43tn in 2007 up until 2015 (N69tn). Real GDP decreased to N68tn in 2016.The drop in real GDP could be attributed to the 2016 recession caused by crash in the global oil prices and its effect on exchange rate. The Nigerian economy in 2017 recorded a marginal recovery in Real GDP to N68.5tn following exit from recession in the second quarter of same year.  Sources: NBS, BRIU There was an increase in the inflow of FDI to Nigeria from N498bn in 2007 to N609bn in 2008. Between 2008 and 2010, FDI inflow fell drastically to N108bn, having a contrasting relationship with GDP as the period from 2010 to 2017 exhibited a fluctuating trend. From N274bn in 2011, it grew to N311bn in 2012 before dropping to N199bn in 2013. The total amount of FDI inflow during 2014 was recorded at N381bn, which declined 25 per cent in 2015, increased by 12 per cent in 2016 and fell by 6 per cent in 2017. Nonetheless, FDI inflow to Nigeria never grew to a value as high as the N609bn recorded in 2008. How does FDI matter in the present economic space? Researchers observed that the main reasons for attracting FDI inflows are to bridge the gaps in national savings, foreign exchange, revenue and management. The most cited rationale of FDI to GDP growth rate is its role in filling the resource gap between targeted investment and domestic mobilized savings. When domestic resources (savings) fall relative to potential investment, FDI is seen as an alternative in filling up the gap. Also, FDI contributes to bridging the gap between the targeted foreign exchange (FOREX) requirements and FOREX liquidity generated from net export earnings and foreign aid. An inflow of FDI not only alleviate deficit on the balance of payment account but also eliminate the deficit over time, if the foreign investors can generate a net positive flow through export earnings.  Foreign investors bring with them advanced management, entrepreneurship and technology and skills. These can be transferred to the local counterparts through training programmes. Furthermore, FDI augment the revenue of the host country. By taxing multinational companies, host nations mobilize public financial resources for development projects. FDI will prove very important in boosting the revenue profile of Nigeria especially with the current drive of the present administration to expand the tax base from the current paltry 6 per cent of GDP.  