As the 2019 general elections draw closer, the political move of the national leader of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) appears to be uncertain.
Tinubu is perhaps regarded as the one of the greatest politicians and political strategies of his generation.
Since leaving office as governor of Lagos State in 2007, Tinubu has continued to maintain his influence and dominance on Lagos and Southwest politics, while also gaining more national prominent in recent years.
Perhaps, his greatest political geniuses could be leading four major opposition parties into a merger that metamorphosed into the APC, which resulted in the defeating of the then ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in a historic general elections in 2015, which ushered in the incumbent President Muhammadu Buhari.
However, the relationship between Tinubu and President Buhari nose dived after Buhari assumed office in 2015 as President.
Close associates and loyalists of Tinubu had accused President Buhari of sidelining Tinubu in appointments into his cabinet and several other positions across the country, in spite of Tinubu’s contribution to Buhari’s emergence as the President of the country.
Tinubu’s disagreement with the Buhari’s government and the leadership of APC became public knowledge when he wrote an open letter criticizing the then national chairman of the party, John Odigie-Oyegun, who was then backed by Buhari, predicting doom for the party if Oyegun continued to remain in office.
However, in recent time the relationship between the two leaders appears to be cordial, while Tinubu have also openly declared his support for Buhari’s re-election bid.
Tinubu also successfully installed his associate and former governor of Edo State, Adam Oshiomhole, as the national chairman of the party.
Buhari recent emergence as the consensus Presidential candidate of the APC, elected in a direct primary by party members across the state chapters in the country.
In spite of this, as the build up to the 2019 general elections gathers momentum, analysts have questioned Tinubu’s support for Buhari’s re-election bid, this is amid recent photography of Tinubu and Atiku Abubakar public embrace.
Political analyst, Ayo Kusamotu, notes he will not be surprise if Tinubu dumps Buhari at the last minute, stressing that there is no permanent friend in politics, but permanent interest.
“Of course, this is politics, anything can happen. I can tell you that, when it comes to politics, there is no permanent friend and enemy, it is about your interest.
“So, if Tinubu dumps Buhari at the last minute and give his support to Atiku don’t be surprised, because it is obvious that forces within the APC and close loyalists of the President were not comfortable working with Tinubu”.
“Look at what happened to him, after 2015 election they sidelined him, after he supported Buhari. If I were he, I would not back his re-election bid. But it seems what we are seeing is more than this, Tinubu may be afraid of his shadows,” Kusamotu says.
Analysts have further predicted that since its was now obvious that Buhari could not be trusted Tinubu may ditched him for Atiku, fearing that he may be victimised by Buhari if he wins a second term.
This is however amid report of a recent meeting between the two leaders outside the country.
Also, a close associates of Tinubu and former acting chairman of the APC, Bisi Akande, last week expressed his support for Atiku’s agitation for restructuring of the country, stating that the country could not attain its potentials with its current structure. 