The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC is in a desperate move to meet the deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC that all political parties must complete primary elections on or before October 7. But less than three days to the INEC deadline this Sunday, APC has not achieved 50% in the conduct of the primaries as the exercise has been cancelled and rescheduled in some states. In what appeared like a desperate move, members of APC Governors Forum Thursday met with the party’s National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole in Abuja to review and resolve the issues that hampered the conduct of primary elections in some states. APC Governorship primaries have been suspended indefinitely in some states including, Imo, Ogun, Zamfara and Adamawa while National and State Houses of Assembly primaries are yet to be conducted in many states due over contentious issues. Abdulraziz Yari, Chairman Nigerian Governors Forum and Governor of Zamfara state told journalists after the closed door meeting that, they met on matters arising from primary elections held in some states with a view to resolve them. Yari explained that the meeting, “discussed so many things as you have seen, some colleagues and others, we have one issue or the other, ranging from the senators disqualification and what have you which we discussed as a family and to look at how we can boost the morale of the followers and other issues related”. He noted that, “so, in resolving that, there is no other person than the National Chairman and Working Committee so we sit down and discussed and steps are going to be taken so that we can understand the way forward. “Chairman said they are  have National Working Committee meeting and the same time we are concerned, if we are not having any candidate any where by the 7th, we automatically have no candidate to field for 2019. We are working harder, faster to ensure that we have these things done so that we can start coming to the convention on Saturday “Apart from the governorship election we had yesterday which is a little bit tough but the outcome is not yet announced but we not done the Senate yet, we have not done the Reps, we have not done the state Assembly which all of these must be concluded probably today and tomorrow and then come for the National Convention on Saturday and by Sunday 12 am that is the last day for the conduct of primaries by the parties in Nigeria. Anyone that do after that, is null and void by the Act of National Assembly”, Yari stated. Also, the Chairman APC Governors Forum, Rochas Okorocha said, “we are on the party’s primaries. And you know it comes with issues and challenges especially in our democratic structures.  APC do have some few challenges in some few states and we have come to soften the rough edges so we can rebuild unity in the party. “And how we can ensure that aggrieved persons are settled within the primaries. So that is what brought us here. Majority of the state where there are issues, we have come here to look at what to do. And of course you know our party believe in free, fair, justice and equity and we are making sure we keep to that by giving everybody a chance to vote and be voted for”, Okorocha stated. On his part, Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State disclosed that the meeting was a follow up to the earlier meeting between some APC governors and President Muhammadu Buhari. “And we are now here to see the national chairman on orders and the instruction of Mr president. Just with a view that we resolve all lingering issues amicably, and I am sure at the end of the day everything will he resolved”. While the Governors are insisting that primaries must be concluded hastily to beat the INEC deadline on Sunday, Oshiomhole insisted that new panels would be set to conduct fresh primaries in the state where earlier exercises have been cancelled even as direct primaries directed by the National Working Committee. 