Turner Africa is thrilled to announce an exciting new partnership with Greenworld Communications in Nigeria. This partnership will offer Greenworld’s client’s access to advertising solutions on some of its iconic, high-quality channels operating across the continent: newly launched TNT, Cartoon Network and Boomerang. “We are extremely excited to work with Turner Africa and its prestigious brands” says Greg Anobili, Vice-President & CEO, Greenworld Communications Limited. This partnership furthers the multi-channel vision of Greenworld, where we can provide advertisers with desirable audiences over multiple platforms. The implication is that we will make it possible to greatly amplify advertising campaigns and brands alike, working closely with the brands to drive better ROI and reach for clients”. Turner, a WarnerMedia company is an entertainment, sports and news company that operates more than 180 channels and showcases 47 brands in 34 languages in over 200 countries. The Turner channels are available on DSTV and terrestrial TV in Nigeria across multiple packages. Turner Africa operates the leading kid’s channels – Cartoon Network and Boomerang and the US blockbuster movie channel, TNT. A key driver is definitely Turner’s outstanding reputation for creating premium content and delivering exceptional experiences to fans no matter how they are consuming content, from on-air, on the ground or digital. The agreement expands the reach of the Greenworld TV sales division into new genres being blockbusters movies (such as the epic “I am Legend” with Will Smith or the latest Miami Vice) and highly desirable kid’s programming as well as into new audiences across the SEM spectrum. Greenworld offers Turner Africa dedicated television and integrated sales and a back-end team with the experience to produce cost-effective, high-impact advertising, content and sponsorship solutions on the Turner channels. “Concluding this significant partnership with one of the world’s leading content providers and distributors will strengthen Greenworld’s offering to the market” says Greg Anobili. “Television is an increasingly important part of our strategy and we will now be able to offer our clients a more extensive media buy that delivers diverse content opportunities, audiences and return on investment.” Guillaume Coffin, VP of sales and Business Development – France and Africa said, “The partnership with Greenworld is an important move move for TURNER’s developments and regional relevance in west Africa. Its expertise and its ability to innovate as well as its event-based advertising know-how convinced us to sign this new partnership. We are convinced that with this new offer we will bring even more value to clients.” 