Muslims in Ekiti State have accused Governor Kayode Fayemi of marginalizing the Muslim community in the recent political appointments announcement by the state government. Addressing Newsmen in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, the Muslims under the aegis of the National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations (NACOMYO), Ekiti State chapter, said the appointment of the Secretary to the State Government, the Chief of Staff and the Chief Press Secretary was not balanced, fair and against the Muslim community. The Ekiti State Coordinator of NACOMYO, Tajudeen Olutope Ahmed, who addressed newsmen during the protest, said “the exclusion of Muslims from the entire membership of the core principal officers of this administration is worrisome, unjust, condemnable and unacceptable.” According to the NACOMYO chief, the Ekiti Muslim community saw the appointments “as a calculated attempt to exclude Muslims from the fundamental aspect of decision making process in Ekiti State.” In picking holes in the appointments during the protest staged at the Central Mosque, Ado Ekiti, the Coordinator of NACOMYO in the state, Ahmed said excluding Muslims from the first three appointments announced by the governor were “shocking and highly disturbing to all Muslim in the state.” The group said Muslims in the state constituted about 40 per cent of the ekiti State population, and added that the governor was given their total support by voting massively for him during the governorship polls. He held that “the exclusion of the Muslims in this regard is a violation of the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy as enshrined in the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended). “The exclusion of Muslims from the core principal appointments of Dr. John Kayode Fayemi is a derogation of the motto of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as provided in Section 15 (1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Rather than projecting “Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress”; the recent appointments made by the Government will breed “disunity, commotion and backwardness.” They called on Governor Kayode Fayemi to “breathe life into Section 14(4) of the constitution which provided that ‘the composition of the government of a state, a local government council, or any of the agencies of such government or council, and the conduct of the affairs of the government or council or such agencies shall be carried out in such manner as to recognise the diversity of the people within its area of authority and the need to promote a sense of belonging and loyalty among all people of the federation.” They therefore called on Governor Fayemi to “urgently review the composition of of members of the core principal officers of the present government of Ekiti State so as to include Muslims. “We also call on the governor to ensure inclusion of Muslims in all appointments to be made in future at both state and local government levels. This will certainly pave way for the reign of justice, equity and oeace in our dear state.” The Muslims displayed placards with different inscriptions such as “Governor, deputy governor, Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff and Chief Press Secretary, no Muslim so far”; ” Recent appointment is a dangerous signal to Muslims in Ekiti state”; “Fayemi’s core appointments a Christianized agenda in Ekiti state”; ” JKF’s first appointment, a big blow to the Muslims in our dear state.” The governor had, on Tuesday, appointed Mr. Abiodun Oyebanji as Secretary to the State Government; Mr. Biodun Omoleye as Chief of Staff and Mr. Yinka Oyebode as the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor.   RAPHAEL ADEYANJU, Ado-Ekiti 