President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday took time to speak with Mohammed Liman, father of Hauwa Liman, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) midwife who was slain by Boko Haram terrorists. Miss Liman was slain by same militant group, Islamic State West Africa Province (Iswap), said to be affiliated to the Boko Haram Islamic Terrorists, that have inflicted mayhem in the North Eastern part of Nigeria. In a telephone call, President Buhari commiserated with the family and assured Miss Liman’s father that the Nigerian government did everything possible to save his daughter’s life, expressing sadness that all the efforts turned out unsuccessful. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, in a statement, said President Buhari regretted that her commitment to helping victims of the Boko Haram insurgency ended in such a brutal way. The President also spoke with Peter Maurer, the President of the ICRC, extending condolences on the loss of the midwife. Buhari commended the ICRC for the great work they had been doing in Nigeria by providing healthcare services to victims of insurgency in some of the most affected areas. He also appealed to the ICRC to continue their services in Nigeria, and not give up, despite the unfortunate and painful loss of their staff. According to him” Nigeria needs the ICRC and the government will continue to do all it can to protect staff of the organisation and other aid workers that are providing much-needed humanitarian services in the North East region, which had been affected by almost a decade-long conflict”
BusinessDay recall that Ms. Liman, 24 years old, was working with internally displaced people at a health centre supported by the ICRC in Rann, Borno State. She was abducted alongside Alice Loksha on 1st of March 2018, while three other humanitarian workers and eight members of the security forces were killed in the attack, as they were working at a centre supported by Unicef. Tony Ailemen, Abuja. 