Nigeria’s House of Representatives on Wednesday unveiled plans to set up an Ad-hoc Committee that will investigate the whooping sum of N60 billion allegedly looted by some political officer holders and civil servants in Nigeria Airways Limited. The resolution was passed sequel to the adoption of a motion on ‘Urgent need to investigate Justice Obiora Nwazota Commission of Enquiry into the activities of the defunct Nigeria Airways Limited, sponsored by James Faleke (APC-Lagos). In his lead debate, Faleke who doubles as chairman, House Committee on Customs and Excise, stressed the need to ensure the release of the White Paper and implement the recommendations of Justice Nwazota Commission of Enquiry which was conducted in 2012.
He observed that the resolve of Federal Government to commence the payment of N22.6 billion outstanding entitlements of ex-workers of Nigeria Airways Limited being first tranche installment payment should be scrutinized. “The House notes that the federal government under president muhammadu Buhari has commenced payment and offsetting 50 percent of the outstanding entitlements of ex-workers of Nigeria Airways Limited in total sum of N22.6 billion only being the first tranche instalment payment, while the other part payment of the balance of 50 percent in same amount is expected to be paid in 2019 due to paucity of funds. “The House further notes that long before the advent of this administration, precisely in 2002, the Obasanjo led federal government had established the Justice Obiora Nwazota judicial commission to probe into the operations of the company.
“The House is aware that the commission turned in a report which revealed the mind-bogging corruption and looting to the tune of N60 billion. “The White paper was approved by the Federal Government and further directed the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Police to recover the stone funds and prosecute the indicted culprits.
“The House I worried that till date, nothing has been heard of the report and those indicted in the report are believed to be largely visible in the public arena, while the ex-workers continue to languish in abject poverty having been denied their rights to their entitlements, with many of them reportedly dead without receiving their entitlements. “The House is dumbfounded that despite the release of the White Paper and the approval given to the Paper as well as the directives to the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Police by the Federal Government on an entity of this magnitude, which affects the entire nation, the previous governments have refused to prosecute the culprits indicted in the report.
“The House is further concerned that those who have been identified to have looted this humongous sum of N60 billion in 2002, a sum whose value will no doubt be in the region of about N200 billion in present day might have been using the said fund to fight, destabilize the government and in some cases, may have bought their way out of prosecution and possible conviction,” he alleged.
To this end, the House resolved to investigate, reveal and make public, the identities of those indicted in the White Paper report. The Lower Chamber also resolved to identify those involved and
indicted by the White paper with the aim of ensuring they are prosecuted and made to refund the loot.
Similarly, the House resolved to reveal reasons why those indicted in the report of the White paper have not been prosecuted despite the Federal Government directive to the effect.
The House also mandated the Ad-hoc committee to identify any civil servant and or political office holder who may have used his/her office (s) to thwart and or prevent those indicted from prosecution and possible conviction. The Ad-hoc Committee when constituted is also expected to make any other appropriate recommendations and report back within four weeks.