Organised labour has threatened to shutdown the economy as from next week Tuesday if employers of labour fail to accede to the demand for implementation of N30,000 as the new national minimum wage. They declared this during the peaceful rally at the State House, Abuja and other states of the federation, in line with the directive issued by National Executive Council (NEC) of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC). During the tripartite negotiation meeting, Federal Government proposed N24,700, while some State Governors offered N20,000 as minimum wage. The protest held simultaneously in Lagos, Cross River, Ekiti, Taraba and other states across the federation. Some of the inscriptions on the placards displayed by protesters who staged peaceful rally at the State House, include: ‘No minimum wage, No work from Nov. 6’; ‘Minimum Wage of N30,000 not negotiable’; ‘Minimum wage will boost Nigerian economy’; ‘Upward review of Minimum wage will not trigger inflation’; ‘Ngige and Governors do not own Nigeria’; ‘Nigeria belongs to all workers’, among others. In his remarks, Bobboi Kaigama, TUC President frowned at the disposition of State Governors toward ensuring payment of adequate salaries to Nigerians. “The governor’s complaints of no equitable distribution of revenue in all states is not acceptable, as the governor of Lagos State is receiving the same salary as the Governor of Kebbi state. We also need equity among workers’ salary. “Equity is also good for the commoner. The minimum wage cannot take governors throughout the week.3 N30,000 is by far less than the value of N18,000 in 2011. Even the value of N18,000 in 2011 was valued at 50 dollars but now is valued at less than 50 dollars. “Nigerian workers are not in charge of the economy and the government who increased the inflation rate for reasons best known to them. “The same rate of inflation should be applied to the increase of minimum wage. No minimum wage, no vote to any presidential or governorship candidate.” Kaigama, argued that the implementation of the national minimum wage was imperative as workers in the country were faced with hard times. Kaigama called on Federal and State Governments to do the needful as N30,000 was not too much for them to pay workers as minimum wage. “They cannot say they do not have money; the political office holders have the money and also the government. We also know how much they are putting into politics and the forthcoming general elections. “Workers are not slaves but rather they create the wealth of the nation, they cannot continue to suffer. Afterall the minimum wage is long overdue,” he said. On his part, Ayuba Wabba, NLC President, explained that the rally tagged: ‘National day of mourning and outrage’ chided Federal Government’s negotiation team for manipulation and bending of facts in an attempt to delay or derail the processes needed to promulgate a new national minimum wage act. “We call on the Federal Government to take necessary steps to ensure the enactment of a new national minimum wage act as we cannot guarantee industrial peace and harmony,” he said. Wabba explained that the new national minimum wage was both legally and materially due since 2016, saying “the Minimum Wage Act prescribes a five yearly cycle of review.” He also said that coupled with the delay, the increase in the pump price of petroleum products by over 85 percent and the devaluation of the naira by 100 percent in 2016, have massively affected the cost of living. According to him, the exchange rate and inflation rose to an all-time high, rendering the N18,000 unjustifiable as basis for continued national minimum wage. “Given the realities of our economic condition, the least any worker should earn is N30,000,” the NLC chieftain observed.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 