A SoftBank-led proposal to create new tournaments with Fifa faces a make-or-break vote on Friday, with the backers of the $25bn plan set to walk away unless international football’s governing body can secure agreement among its divided membership. The vote marks a crucial moment for Gianni Infantino, Fifa president, who wants to radically transform the sport through an expansion of the Club World Cup, an annual competition between seven of the globe’s top clubs, as well as create a new league contest for national sides. Delegates from Fifa’s 37-member governing council are gathering in Kigali, Rwanda for showdown talks on the proposals that have polarised powerful factions and major clubs in world football. Fifa has engaged in secret talks for months with a consortium of international investors including Japan’s SoftBank, which has pledged to inject $25bn into a Fifa-controlled joint venture that would run the tournaments.  Mr Infantino has previously said the investors represented “major interests and multinationals in Asia, Europe and North America”.  A person close to the talks said there was no longer any sovereign involvement in the investor proposal, after heavy speculation that the entities close to the governments of Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi formed part of the group.  There is growing concern among the group about Mr Infantino’s ability to carry the proposal through its ruling council, having already postponed a vote on the plan earlier in May. A SoftBank-led proposal to create new tournaments with Fifa faces a make-or-break vote on Friday, with the backers of the $25bn plan set to walk away unless international football’s governing body can secure agreement among its divided membership.  The vote marks a crucial moment for Gianni Infantino, Fifa president, who wants to radically transform the sport through an expansion of the Club World Cup, an annual competition between seven of the globe’s top clubs, as well as create a new league contest for national sides. Delegates from Fifa’s 37-member governing council are gathering in Kigali, Rwanda for showdown talks on the proposals that have polarised powerful factions and major clubs in world football.  Fifa has engaged in secret talks for months with a consortium of international investors including Japan’s SoftBank, which has pledged to inject $25bn into a Fifa-controlled joint venture that would run the tournaments. Infantino has previously said the investors represented “major interests and multinationals in Asia, Europe and North America”.  A person close to the talks said there was no longer any sovereign involvement in the investor proposal, after heavy speculation that the entities close to the governments of Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi formed part of the group.  There is growing concern among the group about Mr Infantino’s ability to carry the proposal through its ruling council, having already postponed a vote on the plan earlier in May.  Source: FT 