The Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has, said that it’s troops on special operations across the country, killed 35 suspected armed bandits, while 93 other were arrested. It disclosed that the feat was recorded two weeks after the exercise code-named “Operation 777″ was inaugurated by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS)’ General Gabriel Olonisakin. The Acting Director of Defence Information (DDI), Brigadier General,John Agim, who disclosed this to newsmen on Thursday at the Defence Headquarters, said the operation was meant to, among others, re-energise ongoing exercise. Agim vowed the military’s readiness to contain leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, who had threatened to return to the country with ‘hell”. Baring his mind on the ongoing operations across the country, especially the war against Boko Haram in the North East, the DDI said gains were being recorded by troops who, apart from neutralising and arresting suspected criminal elements, had made significant recoveries of arms and ammunition. However, he enjoined the citizens to support the military, adding that the war against terror and other threats, must be seen as a collective action against a common enemy. “In the last 2 weeks that we embarked on Operation 777 several achievements have been recorded. Across the various operations, large number of arms, ammunitions and other dangerous weapons were recovered. “During the period under review, our gallant troops neutralised 35 Criminals and a total of 98 suspected bandits/criminals were arrested and they are undergoing investigation and shall be handed over to the police for prosecution”, Agim said. Some of the weapons recovered during the operation, according to the Defence spokesman, were: quantity 5 AK 47 Rifles, 20 Bow and arrows, 113 Qty of 7.62mm live ammunition, 20 live cartridges, and 4 rifle magazines. According to the DDI “Within the period also, 419 rustled cattle were recovered, 405 sheep and 101 goats were recovered and handed over to the various states committees established to return the animals to the rightful owners. “In the operation around the maritime areas, a total of 398 metric tonnes of stolen crude oil was recovered, 67, 000 litres of illegally refined AGO, 126 reservoirs, 34 illegal refineries, 27 wooden boats and quantity 101 of 100 litres drums of premium motor spirit (pms) were recovered and destroyed.” He regretted two soldiers were killed in action (KIA), two wounded in action, while 2 ohers were missing in action. Meanwhile, the DHQ has warned Kanu against threatening the State, saying it was poised to deal with his excesses. The warning came against the backdrop of threats of “hell” Kanu was said to have issued from Jerusalem, Israel, about a week ago. But, responding to a question on the development, Agim simply said: “Operation 777 is on. Whoever that is coming to Nigeria with hell, operation 777 will contend with the person;be it Kanu or any other person”.  Stella Enenche, Abuja 