There is palpable fear within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus over the impeachment of Speaker Yakubu Dogara allegedly being muted by the leadership of All Progressive Congress (APC) when the House fully resume on Wednesday. According to the scheduled electronic Notice Paper sent to all the lawmakers, the House is expected to adjourn the Tuesday plenary session after the Speaker’s welcome speech, to mourn the death of Funke Adedoyin (PDP-Kwara) who died on Friday, 28th September, 2018. To this end, legislative activities are expected to resume on Wednesday, BusinessDay authoritatively gathered. BusinessDay gathered that many of the lawmakers who lost from the just concluded party primary elections for return tickets to the Lower Chamber, especially in the South-South and South-East geopolitical zones, may decamp to APC to protest the highhandedness of their respective State Governors. While confirming this, Timothy Golu (PDP-Plateau) who spoke on behalf of Parliamentary Democrats Group (PDG) cautioned members of All Progressive Congress (APC) to desist from the purported plan to impeach Speaker Yakubu Dogara when the House reconvenes on Tuesday, 9th October, 2018, despite his defection to Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Golu, who confirmed that the House will reconvene as scheduled and attend to urgent and pressing national issues requiring legislative attention. He vowed that the group will resist any attempt to disrupt the legislative activities against the House leadership from any quarters. Golu also advised the APC to prepare for the gale of defection that will hit it as many of the ruling party’s lawmakers would be defecting to the PDP upon the resumption later this  and put the opposition in a comfortable majority in the House of Representatives. He said, “Our attention has been drawn to statements credited to the All Progressives Congress, APC, that the Speaker, Rt. Hon. Yakubu Dogara, should vacate his seat as he is occupying a usurped position. “We want to again state categorically clear that any attempt to instigate crisis or undermine the authority, right or position of the Speaker would meet a brick wall. He maintained that: “the position of the Speaker does not belong to any political party as he was elected by members from all the political parties as provided for in the 1999 constitution.” Golu further tasked security agencies to steer clear of politics and not themselves to be used as tools by the “failing APC” as Nigerians and the international community are watching and monitoring developments in the polity with kin interest. “We call on our colleagues  to be vigilant and prepare for any eventuality that those planning to destabilise the parliament may come up with,” he stated. One of the Edo APC lawmakers, Peter Akpatason had in a chat with journalists in Benin penultimate week, argued that it was an aberration for a member of another political party to continue to be Speaker of the House of the Representatives. “We, as party loyalists, will carry out any instruction we get from the party. We will study the situation when we get back. Whatever the situation is will be what we will react to. “We cannot be happy to have a speaker that belongs to another party. It is an aberration and has to be treated as such,” the report stated.