NEMA has received another batch of 149 stranded Nigerians from Libya brought by International Organization for Migration (IOM). The Returnees arrived Nigeria via Buraq Airlines Boeing 737-8000 with registration number 5A-DMG at about 1:20 a. M on Friday at the Cargo Wing of the MMIA, Ikeja.
The profile of the Returnees showed that adult females are 56, one female child and two female infants while adult men are 81, with two male children and eight male infants.
Though, all the Returnees were those living in Tripoli, the Country Capital City, many of them confessed that they didn’t suffered the ordeals of the those who stayed outside the capital city but regreted venturing into such unreasonable and destructive journey.
Aminat Sunday 29 from Ifo Local Government of Ogun State expressed her regret by saying that if she had known she would not have traveled but because of much burdens of siblings, her children and persuasion by her trafficker.
She said didn’t pay her trafficker before leaving but paid her with a year’s salary.
You I got a fair job of housemaid but the work made me to come home because it is very stressful, tiring and have serious health problems on my body
Aminat explained the nature of the job that “in Libya, their house have large compounds and all of it have tiles, as maid after cleaning the main house, I have to scrub the whole tiles floors and fence every day with a salary of an average of 50,000 amount.
She went further on her disappointment that I could not achieve the initial of raising for the upkeep of my family.
There is no banking system over there and there is no money could be remitted back to Nigeria except through Nigerians who have banks in Nigeria.
You pay them 5,000 dollars only 2,500 dollars will be given to the dependants.
I actually regreted embarking on the journey but thanked Almighty God and IOM for bringing me safely
When asked about her advise to those wh are still thinking of taking irregular journey like they took, I will never encourage anyone to embark on such irregular journey
To be sincere, Nigeria is far more better than Libya, I have learned my lessons in wrong ways but thank God I am still alive.  IFEOMA OKEKE 