Factional Treasurer, All Progressives Congress, APC, Delta state chapter, Hon. Ebiakpor Ezebri has blasted the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade , for allegedly imposing Chief Great Ogboru on the people as the gubernatorial candidate of the party in the state. Ezebri who spoke to BusinessDay in Warri during the weekend, said that with the alleged imposition of Chief Ogboru by Comrade Oshiomhole on Deltans, “the APC has been sold out to the ruling Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, in Delta State.” He therefore, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene and reverse the situation before the 2019 general election, warning that failure to do this will result to failure of the party in the the next election. Ezebri said that Adams Oshiomhole’s name would ever remain in the bad books of Deltans for toying with their destiny to get justice and fairness in the governance of the affairs of the state. Hon. Ezebri who is the pioneer State Financial Secretary of the party also said with this singular action of Comrade Oshiomhole, he has succeeded in tearing apart the long cherished and agreed power rotation/zoning principle that has been operated by the three Senatorial districts in the state which has ensured that all the five ethnic nationalities in the state are given a sense of belonging and being carried along in the governance of the state. Ezebri, a former Councilor in Burutu Council Area of the state, also accused Adams Oshiomhole of creating the factions and bad blood in the APC Delta State chapter by unlawfully inaugurating the Prophet Jones Erue-led state exco on assumption of office while the Chief Cyril Ogodo-led exco duly inaugurated and sworn-in by the immediate past National Chairman of the APC, Chief John Odigie–Oyegun was still in place. He said, “Oshiomhole undertook the action because the Chief Oyegun inaugurated exco supported tenure elongation for Chief Oyegun against Oshiomhole’s emergence as National Chairman, so on assumption of office he immediately inaugurated his own exco with a former state chairman, Prophet Jones Erue, thus creating factionalisation in the party, “By their own calculations the State Chairmanship position should go to Delta Central to pave way for a Delta North Gubernatorial candidate to enable the North complete their two-tenure of governorship in the state.” Hon. Ezebri noted that Ogboru emergence as the gubernatorial candidate for the APC in spite of the agreed power rotation by all Deltans irrespective of party affiliation, is a slight on the ethnic sentiment of the good people of Delta North who rightly feels aggrieved and short-changed. He said the action amounts to a time bomb waiting to explode sooner or later, stressing that “its aftermath would be devastating to the harmonious power equation balance as it would breed generational strife, insecurity, hatred and enmity amongst five ethnic nationalities that make up Delta State even as this imposition has given the state ruling PDP the opportunity to defeat the APC.” He noted that of nothing is done to reverse the decision, minorities like Ijaws, Isoko and Itsekiri ethnic nationalities in the state, would never be able to get to the seat of power again.  Francis Sadhere, Warri 