Barring a last minute change, the deputy governor of Ogun state, Yetunde Adenuga and hundreds of women leaders from All Progressives Congress (APC) as well as market women, have resolved to move to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja and occupy the APC Secretariat to announce as part of effort to ensure that Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s anointed governorship candidate in the state, Adekunle Akinlade, is announced as authentic governorship candidate ahead of 2019 general election. Consequently, hundreds of women from the three Senatorial districts in Ogun State on Wednesday took to the major streets of Abeokuta, the state capital and protested against the “imposition” of candidates in All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, saying the national chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole and the National Working Committee (NWC) would have no choice than to declare Akinlade as an authentic governorship candidate. Recall that the two factions of Ogun APC, namely, Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s faction and former governor Segun Osoba’s faction held factional governorship and legislative seat primaries during the recently-conducted nationwide APC primaries which produced Akinlade for Governor Amosun’s faction and Dapo Abiodun as Osoba’s factional governorship candidate, but the National Working Committee of APC announced Abiodun as substantive governorship candidate. The angry women, who came to NUJ Press Centre, Iwe-Irohin House in their hundreds on Wednesday carrying placards with different inscriptions such as ‘We want justice in Ogun APC’, ‘Give us Triple A’, ‘Oshiomhole, Osinbajo, we want justice in Ogun State’ and a ‘Minority cannot take charge over majority’, among  others, threatened to occupy Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, naked on Friday if the National Working Committee and the national Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole failed  to announce AbdulKabir Akinlade Akinlade  as the substantive governorship candidate of the party in the state. The state party women leaders led by Shade Giwa, claimed that Dapo Abiodun was nowhere to be found during the primary election of the party held across the state on October 2, 2018, saying: “October 2nd we voted for Hon. Abdul Kabir Akinlade during the primary election and he emerged as the winner. But the electoral committee announced Hon. Dapo Abiodun as the winner, who was nowhere to be found during the election. “The Electoral committee should be warned, Adams Oshiomhole, should be warned, He should release our mandate, we give him till Friday to announce the result, else, by Saturday, we will meet in Abuja. We want the whole Nigeria to know that we in Ogun State are of Ogun standard and we cannot take anything apart from that. In the party primary recently conducted in Ogun, we voted for Adekunle Akinlade, we don’t know Dapo. “Adekunle is the one that all the APC women voted for and anything apart from Akinlade is a no to us. We are warning all the NWC led by Adams Oshiomhole because women are going to take action if they fail to announce Akinlade as the party candidate before Friday. We are going to storm Abuja to express our displeasure and we will go naked.” Addressing the protesting women earlier at Oke-Mosan Governor’s office, the deputy governor, Yetunde Onanuga commended the protesting women for leaving their homes to defend their right. She said: “I have seen the reason you came here in support of honourable Abdulkabir Akinlade. For the past weeks they have been helping us in Abuja and they will continue to help us. “Let us exercise patience when it is time for us to go to Abuja, I’ll personally follow you to Abuja. I implore you all that by God’s grace, our mandate to Abdulkabir Akinlade will not be in vain.” Derin Adebiyi, APC chairman in the state, claimed that Akinlade is the right choice, saying:  “We all know it is Akinlade we voted for, those who didn’t vote and lied, it is left to them.” RAZAQ AYINLA, Abeokuta 