Some aggrieved members of the House of Representatives from Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) staged a walk-out during the heated debate on the new Electoral Act on the use of Smart Card and unspecified electronic devices during elections, as stipulated in clause 16 of the bill. The controversial clause provides that the presiding officer shall use a smart card reader or any other technological device that may be prescribed by the Commission for accreditation of voters, to verify, confirm or authenticate particulars of the voter in the manner prescribed by the Commission. Some of the lawmakers including Ossai Nichola Ossai (PDP-Delta), Gabriel Onyewife (APGA-Anambra), Rita Orji (PDP-Lagos), Boma Goodhead (PDP-River), Dan Asuquo (PDP-Cross River), left the chamber in protest sequel to the adoption of the amendment. Other lawmakers who spoke on the bill are: Nasir Ahmed, Sylvester Ogbaga, Sadiq Ibrahim, Aminu Shehu Shagari, Musa Soba, and Simon Arabo. As soon as the Chairman of the Committee on Electoral and Political Party Matters, Aishatu Dukku read the motion, presiding officer, Yussuff Lasun informed his colleagues of the importance of the bill and demanded for their prompt attention. He explained that the House is expected to amend the Electoral bill relating to the concerns raised by President Muhammadu Buhari and his resolve to decline assent. In a swift response, Femi Gbajabiamila, Majority Leader however observed that the clause was necessary because it will leave the electoral body the opportunity to introduce any other technological
device to conduct elections without recourse the National Assembly for another amendment. He added that where the card reader fails to function, the presiding officer is expected to replace it within three hours to the end of voting. Where that is not possible, the electoral body will conduct a fresh election within 24 hours. Also Clause 17 says that where nomination of an elected is nullified by the Court and a notice of appeal against the decision is given within the stipulated period for appeal, the elected candidate shall not withstanding the contrary decision of the Court remain in office pending the determination of the appeal. Going by the new law, it is now an offence for any political party to present an unqualified candidate to the Commission and where that happens, the erring party shall pay a fine of N5 million. The Clause 18 further stipulated that the Commission shall electronic voting in all elections or any other method of voting as may be determined by the Commission from time to time. The House is expected to continue the debate on Thursday, 18th October, 2018. Meanwhile, a bill for an act to provide for the management, administration, operation, regulation and supervision of payment clearing and settlement systems in Nigeria sponsored by Jones
Onyeriri, chairman, House Committee on Banking and Currency scaled through second reading on the floor.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 