On the 24th of October 2018, Nigeria’s acting finance minister, Zainab Ahmed dished out a statement claiming that the country’s increasing population growth is one of the greatest challenges confronting the successful implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). According to her, the federal government has been engaging critical stakeholders like traditional and religious leaders to advise their members on child spacing— a measure she said will help curb the country’s escalating population growth. Economic experts and analysts have expressed disagreeing thought over the minister’s statement saying a high population growth if utilized properly can lead to increase demand which in turn, will spur growth across all sectors in the economy. “We do not think the rising population should pose a threat to the growth of the economy considering the vast amount of natural and mineral resources that the country is endowed with, majority of which are still untapped”, analysts at CSL Stockbrokers, a subsidiary of First City Monument Bank Group said. “In fact, a growing population provides a nation with robust human capital needed for productive purposes as well as a large market for goods and services produced. However, where it is not harnessed or utilized effectively, as is the case of Nigeria, it becomes detrimental to the growth and development of the nation”, the stock broking firm added. Nigeria’s population is estimated at 198 million, according to data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), putting Africa’s largest oil producer on the 7th spot on the global ranking, behind China (1.5 billion), India (1.4 billion), USA (327 million), Indonesia (277 million), Brazil (211 million) and Pakistan (201 million) who sits on the first to sixth positions respectively. It is inconceivable that Nigeria has now taken over as the nation with the highest number of extremely poor people, despite having a lower population (198 million) relative to that of India (1.324 billion people). With an annual population growth rate of 2.6 percent, total fertility rate (the average number of children per woman over the course of her lifetime) In Nigeria stands at 5.8 births per woman. The United Nations predicts that the country’s population could reach 410 million by 2050, which will make the country the third most populated in the world after China and India. “Nigeria’s teeming population in itself is not the challenge; rather, the primary problem is that the country’s infrastructural development, food production and economic growth rate are not catching up with its population”. CSL said in a 24th October note to clients. Ayodeji Ebo, MD/CEO, Afrinvest Securities Limited, said “As long as our economic growth rate continues to lag the population growth, development will be hampered because the available resource is pressured.” The World Bank knowing the importance of investing in human capital development (Education and Health) as a means of improving the lives of its younger generations, approved seven projects to support Nigeria’s investment in nutrition, access to electricity, states’ fiscal transparency, polio eradication, women’s economic empowerment, public finance and national statistics and reducing vulnerability to soil erosion. “The Federal Government of Nigeria’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) identifies human capital investment, restoring growth, and building a competitive economy as its key pillars,” said Rachid Benmessaoud, World Bank Country Director for Nigeria. “This vision for a healthy, educated, productive and resilient population must be complimented by credible governance in order to attract private sector participation and ensure sustainable growth. The approved projects support the implementation of the Government’s growth plan.” The Nigerian economy slowed 1.5 percent in the second quarter of 2018 from the 1.95 recorded in the first quarter, due to contraction of the oil sector. Similarly, Nigeria’s average daily crude oil production dropped to 1.84 million barrels per day in Q2 2018, from the 2.00 million barrels produced in Q1 2018 and the 1.87 million barrels recorded in the same period last year when the country managed to limp out from recession. Nigeria has also resulted into tapping from the capital market even though rates are high to fund a N9.12 trillion budget that it latter trimmed to N8.7 as a result of a shortfall in revenue. Nigeria’s debt to revenue ratio is 61 percent (excluding sinking fund expenses). While analysts have argued that it is never a bad idea to borrow, only when the funds borrowed is tied to key infrastructural projects. However, the fear in the case of Nigeria is on whether the funds will be channelled to the payment of subsidy, overheads and the wage increase if affected. The federal government has paid some N1.6 trillion in the payment of subsidy this year. “The government needs to set out an economic agenda that will grow the economy like the Petroleum Industrial Governance bill (PIGB) that has been passed. The fiscal bill that should have attracted investment into the oil space to create job and reduce unemployment has not been passed. Nigeria also needs to look at the power space, reviewing the tariffs by making it cost effective such that we can have bankable project”, Ebo concluded. MICHEAL ANI 