Power Oil, Nigeria’s healthy cooking oil, says it is commitment to building a healthy nation, by providing families with nutritious products which are of best standards. Amisha Chawla, brand manager, Power Oil, disclosed this during the fifth edition of its annual health promotion campaign “Pay with Calories” staged in remembrance of the annual World Heart Day and also to encourage Nigerians to adopt a healthy lifestyle. “Pay with Calories’, is actually one of our major events being held annually. Interestingly, this edition has coincided with a day when the heart is being celebrated worldwide,’’ said Chawla. ‘‘Power Oil as a brand, seeks to help to build healthy families, and by implication a nation of strong and healthy citizens by providing them with nutritious products of quality standards,’’ she added. The brand’s activation held at Festival Mall in Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos State, and also at various locations in Ibadan in form of street engagement. During the activation in Lagos, participants had the opportunity to use the equipment to exercise for a minimum of at least five minutes to burn some calories, after which they were rewarded with amazing prizes. The prizes won were based on the amount of calories the participants were able to burn on the spot within the allotted time. The campaign created an exciting atmosphere for the brand to cater to the health needs of its teeming customers in a fun, relaxing and rewarding manner. Various gift items were labelled and displayed for consumers to select from depending on the number of calories burned. Omotayo Azeez- Abiodun, public relations manager, Power Oil, said the experiential campaign was borne out of the need to encourage Nigerians to become mindful of their heart health by making efforts to maintain good body fitness, and possibly eliminate unhealthy consumption habits, which lowers the risk of blood pressure and heart-related ailments. “And because the World Heart Day is a symbolic event for us, we went a step further to go into the streets of Ibadan to engage consumers in some calories-burning moves while they get to win gifts in exchange,” said Azeez- Abiodun. The activation which began at 9:30a.m and lasted till the evening of that day, was well attended as families and individuals trouped out in their numbers to participate in the exercise. The customers who smiled home with amazing gift items could barely hide their excitement. Judith Biegusa, one of the winners who was visibly happy, having won herself a smart wristwatch after working out to burn 75 calories within six minutes said: ‘‘healthy activities like this inspires me and encourages people to believe that going the healthy the way remains one the best channels to a long and sickness free life.’’ Obaide Austin, a participant of the press-up challenge was full of excitement. “It has been so much fun. Getting rewarded for this made it more interesting and I applaud the Power Oil brand for coming up with such a remarkable campaign,’’ said Austin. ‘‘I and I believe everyone present here, will be looking forward to next edition.’’ 