Ahead of the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral  Commission (INEC) has banned electioneering campaigns by political parties and their candidates. INEC warned political parties not to commence campaigns even with the completion of their primaries as Section 99(1) of the Electoral Act prohibits campaigns by political parties earlier than 90 days before the election day. Based on the provisions of the Electoral Act and the timetable and schedule of activities issued by the Commission, campaign for Presidential and National Assembly elections commence  November 18 while Governorship and State Assembly elections kick off December 1. Mahmud Yakubu, INEC Chairman made the disclosure Monday while speaking at a workshop with the theme;  “Strengthening Electoral Democracy in the Commonwealth African Region” at the Transcorp Hilton, Abuja, organised by the Commonwealth in collaboration with INEC for election professionals in the Commonwealth Africa Region. Yakubu who charged political parties and candidates to strictly adhere to the scheduled dates, assured that INEC was committed to improving on the standards of elections in Nigeria. While welcoming the participants, the INEC Chairman said, “I am glad to see participants from all the 19 Commonwealth countries in Africa except Mozambique which is scheduled to hold its Municipal elections on Wednesday this week (i.e. 10 October 2018). “I am delighted that this Workshop is coming only a few months after a major conference on Election and Technology for the West and Southern African Sub-regions co-hosted by INEC and the European Centre for Electoral Support (ECES) in April this year”, he said. Yakubu explained that, Nigeria’s choice to host the workshop is an indication that the Commonwealth is taking notice of the progressive improvement in the nation’s electoral process. He said, “bringing election managers together to share experience and build capacities is a critical step to the consolidation of electoral democracy. “Over the next five days, participants will be taken through five inter-related sub-themes ranging from the promotion of sustainable electoral democracy, strategic planning, gender and elections, electoral technology to elections and new media. “I invite you to be open to new ideas and be critical during the discussions and interactions that follow”, the INEC Chairman stated. 