A few days ago, the media was awash with the news about the selection of Peter Obi, a former governor of Anambra State by Atiku Abubakar, the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (APC), as his running mate. The development sparked a row as some political leaders from the South-East geo-political zone felt slighted over their being left in the dark and having to read of it from the social media. They contended that as critical stakeholders, they deserved the honour to be carried along, particularly having supported the presidential candidate to emerge at the just concluded party convention in Port Harcourt. They said that the development amounted to shaving a man’s head in his absence. Osita Chidoka, a former minister of Aviation and now, special adviser to the PDP Chairman onStrategy and External Engagements, speaking on Channels Television Sunrise Daily Wednesday, explained that the position of the South East leaders was not against the suitability or otherwise of Peter Obi, but that they should have been consulted. “The reaction had nothing to do with the person of Peter Obi. The issue is not about Peter Obi. The Presidential candidate has the right to choose whoever he wants to work with. We can make as many nominations as possible, but the choice of who to choose is his. The fact that he is even carrying people along is only about politics of inclusion,” Chidoka said. The real point of agitation of the political leaders was initially misconstrued, as pundits took to the social media, condemning their stand on the development. But it has since emerged that the contention by the governors and other political actors that raised issues was not that Obi was not the right person contrary to what it was made to appear when the news broke. A lot of interpretations had been given to the opinion of the South-East leaders. Whereas some people said that it could be that some of the governors had wanted to field their own candidates, some others believe that some other political office holders may have thought they would be considered. A pundit had put it this way: “If you look at the politics in South East, it is about self and nothing more. I know that politics generally is about selfish interest, to control the wealth that belongs to all, but it is much more pronounced in the South East than in other zones. Everybody is looking at how it will favour him. Something tells me that if Atiku had carried them along, up till this moment, they would not have come up with a consensus person, and that would have jeopardised meeting the INEC deadline for the submission of candidates’ names. When you know how a people behave, you fashion out a better way to deal with them.” “The PDP presidential candidate has a lot of respect for the South East; that is a fact that everyone must appreciate. He is very much aware that he needs their bloc vote as they have always done for PDP; and he would not deliberately take any step that would create an impression that he is taking them for granted. Look, without the South East massive votes, Atiku would not have emerged in the first place in Port Harcourt. I assure you that whatever that remains would be amicably resolved,” the analyst further said. Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi State, who also is chairman of the South-East Governors Forum, has since explained that there was no time South East was against Obi, but that they should have been given the honour to be participate when decisions “concerning us are being taken.” He was just expressing his feeling as the representative of the South-East governors and also of his state. According to him, “Five names for vice presidential position should have been from the five South-East states but there was no name from Ebonyi and Imo states.” He was just saying that people must be sensitive to the diversity of the South East whenever any slot is coming to the zone. He was emphasising that people should understand that South East does not begin and end in one state. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State re-echoed Umahi’s explanation, when Obi paid him (Ikpeazu) a condolence visit at the instance of Atiku over the pipeline explosion at Osisioma Ngwa, that “There was no time that leaders of Ndi-Igbo and South-East Governors said we are not happy. His choice was apt and you can see the wide spread reception it is getting. If we are banking on the eleven million Igbos in the Diaspora to vote, it is only Peter Obi that can get them to do so.” A source from the national office of the PDP told BusinessDay that the fact that there were no considerations from Imo and Ebonyi on the issue of where the running mate would come from does not in any way amount to marginalisation. “It is important for people to understand that there was no division intended when the issue of choosing Peter Obi came up. PDP and our presidential candidate know the cost of provoking the area that would likely give him 100 percent bloc votes. You see, whether Imo came into the picture or Ebonyi did not come into the picture is immaterial at this time. What is important is that we want to take APC away in 2019 and it is a collective effort that will do it. We cannot do so divided,” the source said. According to him, “Come to think of it, those that should be expected to be aggrieved for any reason, are now part of the campaign arrangements and are going to take active part in ensuring that we win the election. Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State; Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State and the immediate past governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, are all part of the presidential campaign committee, driving the train in their various zones all in a bid to achieve victory for themselves and the party in general. Or what would you say of the Senate President Bukola Saraki, who is now the chairman of the Presidential Campaign Council, or Governor Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, who, I am sure some mischief makers would be expecting to distance himself from the campaign as a result of the misunderstanding over Peter Obi’s emergence; no; they are all on the project in a full throttle. It is our political foes that are trying to magnify the issue, but we understand their antics. I want to say here and again that the 2019 elections would be a referendum against the APC government.” Describing the issue arising over Atiku’s choice of Obi as a “storm in the tea cup”, Kenneth Nnodi, a university lecturer, said: “The noise about Peter Obi’s emergence, to me, was uncalled for. I quite understand the grouse of the political leaders in the zone, but what I have seen now is that people are blowing it out of proportion. The questions to ask are: ‘is Obi qualified to run with Alhaji Atiku?’ does he possess the competences to do the job when he gets there?’ Only yesterday, someone sent to my WhatsApp the video of Obi’s presentation at ‘The Platform’ in 2016. He shared his personal experience how he performed as governor of Anambra State, and I said to myself, if all the governors that had presided over the states in Nigeria had acted like Obi, we would have been somewhere by now. And the fact that he came out openly to say it and no one has been able to counter him or disprove what he said he did and how he ran the state, it then means there is hope for Nigeria if they win in 2019.” Nnodi also is of the belief that for Atiku to have settled for a man, who has proven his integrity, knowing full well that a Peter Obi would resign the moment he spots that things are not going the way they should go; it is also a vote of confidence in the former vice president. “Atiku’s choice of Peter Obi has made me to start looking questioning the corruption allegations against his person. I am not here to prove or disprove that, I am only saying based on what I have seen in the country that corrupt people go for their kind. Atiku knows Obi too well and how he presided over Anambra State as ‘Mr. Integrity’, and he decided to work with him, what that means is that the former Vice President is really out to turn Nigeria around for good, and this is where I want every well-meaning Nigerian to focus attention on. The issue of, we were consulted or were not consulted before selecting Obi should not arise,” he said. Zebulon Agomuo  