Last week, the National Assembly passed the fourth version of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. One of the highlights of the bill is the legalisation of smart card reader for accreditation of voters. Described by pundits as one of the greatest technological innovations of Nigeria’s electoral process, the Smart Card Reader was first used in the 2015 General Election when the immediate past Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Attahiru Jega superintended over the commission. Designed specifically for accreditation of eligible voters before voting, the portable electronic voting authentication device was configured to read only the Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) issued by the electoral body. Prior to this time, use of the device was included in the guideline of the Commission, a development that elicited condemnations from lawmakers in the Seventh National Assembly who queried why it was not captured in extant laws.  Besides being used in the 2015 General Election, Jega’s successor, Mahmood Yakubu, sustained the use of the technology in off-cycle governorship elections in Bayelsa, Edo, Ondo, Anambra, Ekiti, Osun, among others.  However, the use of the card reader has generated heated debate among stakeholders, as analysts have argued about the legality of the use of the device. They cited the Supreme Court verdict in 2016 which upturned the judgments of the Rivers State Governorship Election Tribunal and the Election Appeal Tribunal, which earlier annulled the election on the grounds of substantial non-compliance with the law and election guidelines. The apex court had ruled that both courts were wrong to place emphasis on the non-use of card reader machines in nullifying Governor Nyesom Wike’s election victory. Justice Kudirat Kekere-Ekun, who delivered the lead judgment, said until the National Assembly amends the Electoral Act to give the card reader a statutory backing, it cannot be the basis for nullifying any election.  If signed into law, voters will now be accredited only through electronic means, as the issue of incident forms which was used in the event of failure of smart card reader, in the accreditation of voters has been confined to history. However, voting will still be done manually. Section 49 (1 to 3) of the bill spells out the procedure for voting on Election Day as follows: STEP 1: An intending voter presents himself with his Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) to a Presiding Officer for accreditation at the Polling Unit in the constituency in which his name is registered. STEP 2: The Presiding Officer uses a Smart Card Reader or any other similar technological device to verify, confirm or authenticate the particulars of the voter. STEP 3: If satisfied with the accreditation of the voter, the Presiding Officer issues the voter a ballot paper and indicates on the voters’ register that the person has voted. STEP 4: The voter walks to the cubicle to cast his vote.  STEP 5: After voting, s/he goes to the ballot box to drop the ballot paper.  However, in an event where the card reader fails to function, Section 49 (4) provides that: “Where a smart card reader deployed for accreditation of voters fails to function in any polling unit and a fresh card reader is not deployed 3 hours before the close of the election in that unit or units, then the election shall not hold but be rescheduled and conducted within 24 hours thereafter, provided that where the total possible votes from all the affected card readers in the unit or units does not affect the overall result in the constituency or election concerned”.  Despite the legalisation of Smart Card Reader for voter accreditation, some commentators believe the National Assembly should have gone a step further by amending Section 13 of the Electoral Act to enable the electorate exercise their franchise from any part of the country on Election Day, irrespective of where they registered. The section stipulates the regulations to guide voters on transferring their voter’s cards from one polling station to the other.   OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 