The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) said it has so far recovered a total sum of N3.63 billion illicit financial flow in Nigeria. This is just as the organization has asked the Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice for advice to prosecute about 114 companies that denied owning certain lands in Abuja. Babatunde Fowler, Executive Chairman of the FIRS disclosed this in Abuja, in a Press statement, stating that total tax debts recovered from individuals and organisations between January 2017 and August 2018 stood at about N3.63 billion. Fowler, speaking at the ongoing inter-ministerial meeting of the African Union High Level Panel in Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) in Africa, said that the total sum consists of N1.9 billion recovered between November 2016 and December 2017 and N1.731 billion since January 2018 to date. He said “IFFs are often driven by criminal intent with the purpose of keeping the transactions from the view of law enforcement agencies or revenue authorities. Monies acquired through bribery and abuse of office by public officials and other corrupt practices are enormous and could have increased the level of tax revenues collected, to further embark on different developmental projects”. “Illicit financial flow is not only when monies are illegally taken out of the country abroad, but also includes when companies and individuals fail to pay appropriate taxes to government, the chairman of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) said. According to him, Illicit financial flows also include proceeds from illegal commercial and business activities that lead to hiding wealth, evading or aggressively avoiding tax, and dodging customs duties and domestic levies imposed by government on services. FIRS said it will prosecute the firms for denying ownership of the lands, which it described as “ false claims” “We (FIRS) has vowed to hand over these false claims by these companies to the Attorney General of the Federation for further action on the controversial lands,” Thabo Mbeki, former South African president and chairman of the panel, said the menace of IFFs was of serious concern to African governments as annual losses from IFFs have risen from about $50 billion in 2015 to the current $80 billion. Mbeki stressed that the challenge was for African leaders to work towards stopping the losses, to retain the revenues for the provision of essential developmental services to the people. He said the inter-ministerial meeting was held to help AU member states review the progress so far recorded in implementing the recommendations of the high level panel contained in its final report submitted to the AU heads of state and government in 2015.  Cynthia Egboboh, Abuja 