The Ondo state commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Emmanuel Igbasan has disclosed that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu awarded 704 capital projects worth of N41.99 billion in nine months. He said the project, which cut across the three senatorial districts of the state was between January and September 2018. Igbasan stated this on Wednesday during a town hall meeting with stakeholders in Northern Senatorial District of the state on 2019 budget preparation held at the Conference Hall of Akoko North East Secretariat, Ikare Akoko. He said that the awarded projects was not among the other projects and programmes being implemented through direct labour by Ministries and Extra Ministerial Departments of the state government According to the commissioner, the projects is the determination of state government to achieve greater percentage in the implementation of 2018 budget. Igbasan explained that 347 projects totaling N29.89 billion have been awarded in the six local government areas that comprised the northern senatorial district out of which N5.89 billion were paid to contractors handling various projects in the district in 2018. While addressing traditional rulers and other stakeholders ,the Commissioner said that the meeting was to engage people that were not in the public service to harvest their inputs and include them in the budget and thus have a robust, people-oriented budget. “Following the signing of the state fiscal responsibility bill into law in 2017 by present administration, the inclusion of the inputs of the people or their representatives in the yearly budget has become mandatory. “Without any contradiction,budget ought to be a combined ideas and a product of collective contributions.It should be an essential tool that captures and reflects the values and priorities of the people of Ondo State. “This year, our resolve is to engage even more people in the conversation about how we can work together to build a better future for our children and grandchildren. “We need a feedback on what we have done or are doing and what you feel we should do to expand the fiscal space of the state,create wealth for the people, reverse the trend of huge infrastructure deficit prevalent in the state. “The need for a sound and robust budget cannot be overemphasised as it is the only way to pull us out of the woods and guarantee a prosperous future for generations yet unborn,” he said. In his welcome address, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mr Bunmi Alade noted that in recent years, the focus on budget has assumed greater prominence with increased democratization, citizens participation and the desire to respond to developmental challenges. Alade said that for the state to have robust and realistic budget it must capture the interest and reflect the values and priorities of the people of the state. In his remark, the Olukare of Ikare, Oba Akadiri Momoh lV, who is also the Chairman of the State Council of Obas and other traditional rulers at the meeting appreciated the Akeredolu led administration for providing the forum for the people at the grassroot to contribute to the fiscal policy of the government. They highlighted the priority needs of their communities that should be included in the 2019 budget to include rehabilitation of roads, provision of portable water and allocation of funds to take care of the welfare of Traditional Rulers in the senatorial district.  YOMI AYELESO, Akure 