A high level delegation of Confederation of African Football (CAF) met President of the Qatar Football Association (QFA) H E Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa bin Ahmed Al Thani to discuss matters relating to the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar and football in general. Headed by CAF President, Ahmad Ahmad, the visiting delegation also got the opportunity to review projects carried out by Qatar ahead of the 2022 FIFA World Cup. Wednesday’s meeting served as an extension to the Memorandum of Understanding signed between CAF and QFA in May 2015. The 2015 MoU focused on the exchange of experience and expertise in various areas such as administration, coaching, sports medicine, refereeing, youth and women’s football, infrastructure development, and marketing and communications. The CAF delegation were also met by QFA Vice President Saud Al Mohannadi and Hassan Al Thawadi, Secretary General of the Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy (SC). The visiting delegation reviewed the progress of work related to the 2022 FIFA World Cup projects. A luncheon reception was also arranged by the SC in honour of the visiting delegation. The CAF delegation praised the extensive development work carried out by Qatar so far. Mansoor Al Ansari, QFA Secretary General, commenced the presentation for the CAF delegation while engineer Abdulaziz Al Mawlawi underlined key projects linked to the 2022 FIFA World Cup and its legacy which stretches beyond to Qatar’s Vision 2030. Also on Wednesday Executive Director of Josoor Institute Afraa Al-Noaimi highlighted the Institute’s major plans in the coming months and projects like training courses and workshops carried out in the last few years. These workshops have benefited hundreds of participants since its inception in the field of sports management and science. Officials part of the visiting delegation said Qatar looked confident to delivering one of the best FIFA World Cup editions using creativity and innovation at the heart of its infrastructure development. Details on the infrastructure development carried out by Qatar were also revealed to the CAF delegation that also visited the widely-acclaimed Aspire Academy and the Aspetar Sports Medicine Hospital. A visit to Katara and Museum of Islamic Art are also on the agenda for the delegation’s stay in Qatar. 