As the implications of the October 22, 2018 Supreme Court verdict against the Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State settles, negotiations are said to have opened to bring the two factions (Magnus Abe leads the other) back to a ticket. Fears are rife in the national APC caucus that Rivers may join in the growing list of states where the APC may not field governorship candidates due to the wrangling from the primaries. The fears are said to arise from the strong words used by the Supreme Court in handing the judgment against the Amaechi faction and the Court of Appeal in Port Harcourt who granted a stay of execution to the Amaechi faction over the victory won by Abe faction at a the High Court. The Chief Justice of the Federation is said to have headed the five-man panel that sat on the appeal. The panel said the Appeal Court in Port Harcourt engaged in “a sacrilegious exercise of discretion” by ignoring the doctrine of stare decisis in its June 21, 2018 judgment, given in favour of the APC, despite the party’s decision to conduct its congresses in Rivers State in breach of subsisting orders of the High Court of the state. The apex court said it was wrong to allow a party that disobeyed a court order to turn round and benefit from the act of disobedience. How national APC views the verdict Sources said the national leadership of the APC seems to read the ugly handwriting on the wall by interpreting the language of the apex court especially as the Chief Justice of the Federation was part of the panel that showed huge anger at the APC and the Port Harcourt Appeal Court division. The anger shown against disobedience to a court order and the berating of the Appeal Court for entering favourable judgment to those who disobeyed the high court seemed to resonate with the widespread impression that Amaechi’s administration shut down the courts for one year. The national leadership of the APC is said to interpret this to mean that the highest level of the Judiciary was sore with Amaechi’s style and this could deny the APC an opportunity to field a governorship candidate in Rivers State should the party hold on to Tonye Cole to a point when the submission deadline would elapse. It was gathered that the national APC feels that the Amaechi faction may still lose the main appeal and the party would lose its chance. The option to them is to appeal for reconciliation of both factions so that Abe could be supported to fly the flag and face Governor Nyesom Wike. This view is said to find credence in the fact that some national henchmen of the party have been fighting against Amaechi over the months in the effort to make him less influential in the presidency. Such opponents are said to impress on President Muhammadu Buhari that Amaechi has many political injuries with many ‘enemies’ in both the senate and the judiciary, pointing to episodes during his screening as minister and screening of the topmost leadership of the apex court. The recent acrimony between Amaechi and other leaders of the party during the election of the party chairman that brought Adams Oshiomhole was also mentioned as another contributor to bad blood against Amaechi. Some are said to want to get even at him. Besides, some South-South leaders of the party are said to be wary of the growing influence of Amaechi and may want to cut him to size.  The national leadership is said to say that since Abe conducted what looked like unchallenged primaries (direct) and INEC and some security agencies have started backing the exercise, that the result should be used to send in Abe’s name. Some even said INEC gave Abe nomination forms too.  Not decided The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Lanre Issa-Onilu, on Wednesday, said no decision had been taken on Rivers State. “The Supreme Court ruling on the Rivers APC governorship primaries has been subjected to different interpretations. As at today, the party has not yet taken a position on the ruling. We have a legal department and they will look into it and do what is right on it. The party will come out clearly on its position after studying the judgment.”  Buhari’s order  Buhari is said to have given the national chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, up till next week Wednesday to sort out all lingering gubernatorial crisis in the party. This is said to mean that Oshiomhole and the NWC do not have all the time to wait out the game in court. They think all matters should be negotiated now and done with. On the other hand, Amaechi followers say there is no particular pressure of time because the electoral time allows change if ordered by the court. This would mean that if Cole is cleared even late, INEC would accept his name. Many however think this would be a slim gamble going by the doggedness with which Governor Wike and all Amaechi detractors want to fight him in the courts to ensure that his candidate (Cole) does not get ahead. This is seen as easier than facing Amaechi, Cole and FG in the election.  Negotiations  Unconfirmed accounts of the negotiations indicated that a meeting has already been held but that it broke up because both Amaechi and Abe rejected the terms put forward by middlemen. It was gathered that the national team is offering Amaechi to bring a deputy governor and majority of the national lawmakers but Abe to take governor and majority of the state lawmakers. Hot tempers and threats were said to have greeted the proposition, but the peacemakers think that is not too bad. They are optimistic that tempers would cool down enough for both parties to realise that half of something is better than full of nothing. Inside sources said some persons in both camps are adjusting to the possibility of losing their positions to allow for trade-offs if that would bring peace. There are indications that the next negotiation meeting would be final, either to make or mar. If it goes well before the Wednesday deadline, an announcement may come that Abe is the flag bearer. If it does not go well, a shocking decamping of big weights may be the consequence.  Abe’s aces  Apart from the primaries looking to favour him, Abe’s smoothness, intelligence, large following in Rivers state and wide contacts seem to play in his favour. Some say a contest between him and Wike may be less acrimonious. Others say his stay in the Senate, Nigeria’s most influential centre of politics, may have ingratiated him into the national political hallway. He was said to have used this much during Amaechi’s battle for clearance in the Senate and during the crisis in the Rivers State House of Assembly to get the House of Reps to take over the House, an action that bought some reprieve for Amaechi. Other sources traced a remote connection between Abe’s larger family and the first family and most of the heavyweights that push against Amaechi. It appears that every heavyweight that does not want Amaechi is now heading to Abe’s corner. Some of them are said to have evidence of Abe’s loyalty over the years especially when during the political crisis of 2012-2015 when there were huge offers for anyone close ally that was ready to betray Amaechi. They seem to think that Abe deserved Amaechi’s support at a time like this. Amaechi has consistently demanded a riverine governor to balance the rotation. Many also see a lot of reason in this.  Amaechi, elections and courts  Some are said to be beginning to view Amaechi with destiny in courts for his political successes or failure. He is on record to be the first man in Nigeria to win an election he did not contest, just because the apex court found the PDP guilty of wrongful substitution. It is not clear if things are still smooth between Amaechi and the judiciary but many judicial officials hold it against him for the closure of courts and often make statements suggesting anger. Top lawyers around Nigeria insinuate that a person who closed the courts should not be given benefits in the courts. This may be mere sentiments but some persons around Amaechi are said to be feeling the heat. As it is, some top persons Amaechi may think are still with him are said to be peeping into the Abe bag. Top lawyers hint that Amaechi may not have shown enough sensitivity to the feelings and body language of the judiciary. Since the Supreme Court made him governor without contesting an election, all due to due process matter, the top lawyers say they expected him too to know that any time the courts give an order, it should be respected, even if it is being challenged at the appeal level. Of course, lawyers close to Amaechi have demolished every leg of argument put forward against the minister. They said everything Amaechi and the main APC faction did was defensible in law.  Abe reaction and the hints therein  Abe hailed the judgment of the Supreme Court which nullified the congresses of the party held on the 19, 20 and 21. He said: “I am sure that you have all heard of the historic decision of the Supreme Court of the Federal Republic of Nigeria which affirmed the position of the High Court of Rivers State that the action of the party excluding members of this party from the process and depriving them of the constitutional right was wrong; and to do so in the face of a clear order of a court of competent jurisdiction is nothing but senselessness. “And so for anybody to continue to parade themselves either as a candidate of the APC arising from a process that has clearly been voided by the court is nothing but political rascality of the highest order”.  “And I think it is time for right thinking members and leaders of this party to put this whole thing to an end and put the party in a frame to begin our hard-work towards the realization of our dream of taking over Rivers State”.  According to him, “Luckily the party conducted proper primaries here in Rivers State in the form of the direct primaries. And I believe that the proper thing to do is to do the right thing since the other primary was done in clear violation of an existing order of a Court of Competent Jurisdiction”.  Facts of the Supreme Court verdict A panel of five justices of the court held, in a judgment, that the APC acted in “condemnable, egregious and preposterous” manner by proceeding to conduct its  ward, local government and state congresses of May 19, 20 and 21, 2018, respectively, in Rivers State, in disregard of a pending court order restraining it from so acting. The panel said the Appeal Court in Port Harcourt engaged in “a sacrilegious exercise of discretion” by ignoring the doctrine of stare decisis in its June 21, 2018 judgment, given in favour of the APC, despite the party’s decision to conduct its congresses in Rivers State in breach of subsisting orders of the High Court of the state.  The judgment was on an appeal by 23 APC members, including Ibrahim Umar, David Ndah, Prince Morris, Kudem Bale, and Otokim Jack, who were aggrieved by the outcome of APC’s congresses. Justice Centus Nweze, who read the lead judgment, upheld the appeal and set aside the June 21, 2018 order of the Court of Appeal, with which it stayed the execution of the May 11 and May 30 orders made by the High Court of Rivers State stopping the conduct of the congresses. Justice Nweze, after reviewing the handling of the case by the Port Harcourt division of the Appeal Court, said: “Regrettably, the lower court condoned the condemnatious, egregious and preposterous approach of the respondent herein (APC).” He said the Supreme Court will not support such unruly conduct as exhibited by the APC in Rivers State. Justice Nweze added: “Well, this court (Supreme Court) has a duty to resist this attempt to achieve forensic victory through jiggery-pokery. True to its constitutional mandate, this court cannot lend its weight to this unhealthy approach. “Therefore, I have a duty to allow this appeal. Accordingly, I hereby enter an order setting aside the ruling of the lower court delivered on June 21, 2018.” Justice Nweze upheld the contention by the appellants that the Appeal Court ought not to have granted the order of stay of execution in favour of APC while the party was still in disobedience of the order of the High Court. He noted that on May 11, 2018, “not minding the invasion of the court by hoodlums, an invasion that was charaterised by the destruction of items of the court, the court was still able to deliver its ruling and issued an interlocutory injunctive orders restraining the respondents from conducting its congresses…  “As if that was not enough, on May 19 and May 20, and May 21, respectively, in notwithstanding the pendency of the injunctive orders, the respondent (APC) went ahead to conduct the ward, local government and state congresses. “This defiance has prompted the high court’s order of mandatory injunction of May 30. The restraining order cancels state congresses of May 12, 19, 20 and 21. “Despite the subsisting orders of the court, orders of May 11 and 30, the respondent in the most impudent manner, besieged the  Court of Appeal, Port Harcourt Division for an entreaty to favour it with an order of stay of proceedings and order of stay of execution. “The lower court sitting on both favoured the respondent, that is, the applicant before it, with an order staying the execution of the ‘order of injunction made by the High Court of Rivers State, Port Harcourt in the ruling delivered by Nwogu J, on Friday, May 11, 2018.’ “The simple truth, therefore, is that, when the respondent applied for stay of execution before the lower court, it was in gross disobedience of the positive order of the trial court. “From all indications, notwithstanding this unfortunate development, the lower court still found it legitimate to favour the respondent with a positive order of stay of execution. This was wrong,” Justice Nweze said. He faulted the Appeal Court’s failure to abide by the doctrine of “stares decisis” and refusal to subject itself to the Supreme Court’s decision in the case – the Military Governor of Lagos State Vs Ojukwu. He said the Appeal Court, by its conduct, “embarked on a journey of self-immolation and the Japanese ‘harakiri’” journey, Justice Nweze described as a sacrilegious judicial exercise of discretion.  “Indeed, nothing could be a more sacrilegious judicial exercise of discretion than the lower court’s ill-advised embarkation on this ill-fated journey of self-immolation, or what the Japanese call the harakiri, that means suicide, all in an attempt to in an attempt to circumvent the authority of this court,” he said. Justice Nweze described the decision of the Appeal Court to disregard the established precedent of the Supreme Court as gross insubordination. He said: “This court (the Supreme Court) is the highest court in Nigeria; its decisions are binding on every court, authority or person in Nigeria. “By the doctrine of stares decisis, the courts below are bound to follow the decision of the Supreme Court. The doctrine is a sine qua non for certainty in the practice and the application of law.  “The refusal, therefore, by a judge of the court below to refuse to be bound by this court’s decision is gross insubordination.” Justice Nweze described the attempt by APC’s lawyer, Hakeem Afolabi (SAN), to distinguish the case from the Supreme Court’s decisions in  Military Governor of Lagos State vs. Ojukwu, and Odogu vs. Odogu, as superficially attractive, but feeble. He frowned at what he described as APC’s lawyer’s “advocacy style” in the case and said lawyers must draw a distinction between their role and status as lawyers, and their political interests. The lawyer to the appellants, who are supporters of Senator Magnus Abe, Henry Bello, said the imperative of the Supreme Court’s judgment was “a warning to politicians to always be obedient to court orders ahead of 2019 elections”.  Alleging exclusion, Ibrahim Umar, David Ndah, Prince Morris, Kudem Bale, Otokim Jack and others had, in May 2018 sued the APC and sought to stop its congresses. Justice Chiwendu Nwogu of the Port Harcourt Division of the High Court of Rivers State, on May 10, 2011, granted an interlocutory injunction restraining the APC from conducting the congresses. The party went ahead to conduct the congresses on May 19, 20 and 21. This prompted Justice Nwogu to nullify the congresses in his ruling of May 30. Dissatisfied with the May 30 ruling of the High Court, the APC proceeded to the Port Harcourt Division of the Court of Appeal, praying for an order of stay of execution of both the May 11 and May 30 orders of the High Court and an order of stay of proceedings before the said High Court.  The Court of Appeal on June 21, 2018, granted the APC’s request, a development which prompted the plaintiffs in the High Court to appeal to the Supreme Court to challenge the order of stay of execution granted by the appeal court.  Conclusion: No single authority has confirmed awareness of any negotiations going on between both camps. Inquiries sent to people that should know drew blank. The publicity secretary of the APC, Chris Finebone, said it was not possible. He said; “Assuming without conceding that such move is contemplated, what will be the basis? Will it be based on indirect and direct primaries? Does the APC constitution recognise such? Will it be a political party run based commonsense of its constitution? The possible answers all point to impracticability’. Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, the media consultant to Flag Amachree, the party chairman that was stopped by the court, said in a text message: “I must confess that I am not in the picture of such a dialogue. Though I doubt such a dialogue between Amaechi and Abe because of any Supreme Court judgment as we are not under any pressure to warrant that but if I get any hint contrary to this, I will revert accordingly. But I know Abe very well. He has gone very far with Wike on this project that to bring him back may be highly impossible”. Parry Saroh Benson, the media officer to Abe, said “No comment”. If Abe gets the candidature, the equation in the state would change drastically. It is not clear if Wike will still be smiling should his opponent shifts from Cole to Abe. Whether negotiations are going on or not, however, the national body which is under mandate to sort out all such matters before the middle of next week (end of the month) would force some actions in the Rivers APC scenario, good or bad. 