There are strong indications of a potential exodus of All Progressives Congress (APC) senators, following the party’s submission of candidates’ list to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the 2019 General Elections. BusinessDay gathered that most APC senators who were excluded from the list submitted by the ruling party, are set to dump the party at the resumption of Senate plenary on Tuesday. Serving APC senators who either lost their return tickets to contest the 2019 National Assembly elections or other positions include: Adesoji Akanbi (Oyo South), Babajide Omoworare (Osun East), Sola Adeyeye (Osun Central), Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central), Abdullahi Gumel (Jigawa North West), Hope Uzodinma (Imo West), Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (Niger North), Lanre Tejuoso (Ogun Central), Kabiru Marafa (Zamfara Central), Sani Yerima (Zamfara South), Tijjani Kaura (Zamfara North), Abu Ibrahim (Katsina South), Bukar Abba Ibrahim (Yobe East), Magnus Abe (Rivers State), Abu Ibrahim (Katsina South) among others. In a report that went viral on Saturday, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, Shehu Sani had announced his resignation from the ruling APC. The letter which was addressed to the Chairman of the party in Ward 6, Tudun Wada North, Kaduna, was also copied to the state chairman of the party, National Vice Chairman North West, National Vice Chairman APC North as well as the party’s National Chairman. Although the embattled senator did not give any reason for his resignation, BusinessDay learnt that this may not be unconnected with the eleventh hour substitution of his name with that of Uba Sani – an aide to Kaduna State Governor El-Rufai – to the electoral body as the party’s standard bearer for Kaduna Central. The senator who took to his Facebook page on Sunday to thank his supporters, also announced that he would formally announce his new party on the floor of the hallowed chambers on Tuesday. “This is to thank all my supporters and friends for the show of solidarity and assurances of support over my decision to exit the APC.I assure you that in the next two days you will be informed of my new party.And be rest assured I will contest in the upcoming elections Insha Allah,” he said. The situation is even worse in the lower legislative chamber – the House of Representatives – where about 100 APC lawmakers were denied the opportunity to re-contest for their seats in 2019 general elections. Another window for aggrieved lawmakers to re-contest Despite their inability to secure their party’s nod to recontest the 2019 elections and the expiration of the timeframe given by the electoral body for political parties to conclude their primaries, BusinessDay gathered that the aggrieved lawmakers could still recontest on other party’s platform if they wish to. However, this is only possible with political parties that submitted list of candidates for the National Assembly elections from the same constituency where the aggrieved senator comes from. Political commentators who spoke to our correspondent, admitted that this will involve a lot of horse-trading between the party involved and the embattled senators. A glance at the timetable and schedule of activities released by INEC revealed that while October 18 was the last day for political parties to submit list of candidates for Presidential and National Assembly elections, political parties that meet this deadline still have an opportunity to withdraw and replace candidates. Checks by our correspondent revealed that political parties that beat the October 18 deadline have between now and November 17 to withdraw and replace candidates. Speaking on the development, a political analyst, Anderson Okotie, explained that aggrieved lawmakers can still explore the November 17 deadline by liaising with weaker political parties that have already submitted their list of National Assembly candidate in their own senatorial district. “Politics is about negotiation. Senators who have been denied return tickets can trade with weaker political parties and have their candidate withdrawn for the legislator. Knowing full well that this will brighten their chances, they will most likely fall for this. Don’t also forget the senator will also come with lots of money to throw at the party’s leaders. So, in a way, this is money spinning business for some political parties, especially the weaker ones,” Okotie said. Is Buhari still in charge? Political analysts say the inability of President Buhari to meet the demands of the aggrieved lawmakers, is a clear indication that he is not in charge. They wondered why the Nation’s One Citizen could not ‘protect’ loyal lawmakers, leaving them to the whims and caprices of governors and other APC leaders. Recently, Buhari met with aggrieved APC lawmakers from the House of Representatives where he urged them to not defect, assuring that their grievances would be addressed. One of the lawmakers who attended the meeting, Musa Soba (Kaduna State) lamented what he called impunity exhibited by some state governors and APC leaders in the affected states to deny them return tickets. Another lawmaker who spoke on condition of anonimity, cautioned that the governing party risked losing his constituency to the opposition. “APC members in my constituency have threatened protest vote against the party at the General Elections and there is nothing I can do because the party I have laboured for failed to protect me,” he said. To a legal practitioner, Kehinde Ogundare, the inability of the President to reward loyal party members further buttress the position of his wife, Aisha Buhari, who had earlier lamented that cabals had taken over the government. He said: “What more can be more glaring that the President is not in charge when he succumbed to pressure from Bola Tinubu and had a hardworking Governor Akinwumni Ambode replaced with Babajide Sanwo-Olu as Lagos APC governorship candidate?”  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 