States are to announce the results of the nation wide direct presidential primary election conducted last weekend during tomorrow’s convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Business Day learnt. The results from each state of the federal and Federal Capital Territory, FCT will be announced by Governors while Minsters or Senators will announce the results from states where APC has no governors. The National Working Committee of APC had appointed respective State Governors to serve as Returning Officers for the Presidential Direct Primaries. According to Yekini Nabena, APC Acting National Publicity Secretary, “in States where there are no Governors on the Party’s platform, Senators along with the ministers are to serve as Returning Officers for the exercise”. After the announcement of the results from each state, President Muhammadu Buhari, sole candidature for the APC presidential ticket would be given voice affirmation by delegates at the convention. Apart from the announcement of the results and affirmation of Buhari candidacy, there would be constitution amendment and dissection of policy issues at the convention. Adams Oshiomhole, APC National Chairman while inaugurating the Governor Abiola Ajimobi led Convention Committee said that unlike before where conventions are mainly for the purpose of election, the forthcoming convention would discuss governance and policy issues as obtainable in advanced democracies. Oshiomhole stated that, “we want to organize a convention that will be different from the past. We want to organize convention that goes beyond the purpose of electioneering. “We will try to do what it is done elsewhere by governing parties and even opposition parties to discuss the Nigeria agenda – issues of governance, issues of development, issues of economic and social choices. “Let us disagree and agree within that convention and of course do other routine matters like confirming the nomination of the Presidential candidate and may be amending any section of the constitution that we wish to”, he stated. Business Day observed that unlike previous exercises, arrangements for this convention are not in top gear as no serious security and other preparations have been put in place at the Eagle Square, Abuja venue of the event at the time of thelection”t. Meanwhile, President Buhari scored 100,000 votes from Kebbi state during the Presidential direct primary election. Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi State Governor who disclosed this to journalists in Abuja said, “we have had the presidential direct primary and it went well. About 100,000 thousands party members across the state who turned out in the 225 wards all voted in support of President Muhammadu Buhari as the party’s candidate in 2019 general elections”.