The United States Government, through the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) on Wednesday launched a new urban water and sanitation activity that will support the efforts of six Nigerian states to improve the health and hygiene of their populations through improved delivery of water and sanitation services. The scheme which is under the four-year $60 million Effective Water, Sanitation and Hygiene activity(E-WASH) will provide assistance to Abia, Delta, Imo, Niger, Sokoto and Taraba states to strengthen the governance, financial and technical viability of their state water agencies. Speaking during the launch, the USAID/Nigeria Mission Director, Stephen Haykin, expressed confidence that USAID’s new partnership with the states, collaborative development partners, and the business community, can share in their respective expertise, capabilities and resources to develop more professional and accountable water and sanitation utilities. He decried the United Nations record that about 57 million Nigerians lack access to safe drinking water and each year, water-borne illnesses kill around one million Nigerian children under the age of five. “There is no question that access to a reliable supply of clean water and modern sanitation services is important to the quality of community life here in Nigeria and around the world. Access to these services helps a nation produce strong, healthy and vibrant citizens and the lack thereof, leads to millions of preventable deaths, largely among children every year in Nigeria,” he said. He added that E-WASH will help the six states Water Boards demonstrate that better performing water boards will raise the quality of services for their customers, facilitate economic sustainability; increase the chance of more fully serving all customers in their areas, including the most marginalized. He stressed that the Nigerian government is making progress towards expanding access to all its citizens and lauded that the commitment of the federal government as well as the governments of the six states to improve water and sanitation service delivery to their constituents. “The strong commitment was a critical criterion in selecting the states that will participate in E-WASH, and has catalyzed strong collaboration between stakeholder partners, such as the African Development Bank, the World Bank, the French Development Agency and the Islamic Development Bank,” he said. Haykin said further that these institutions are making significant investment to rehabilitate and expand existing water sanitation and infrastructure across the country to reforms, adding that the alignment of these investments with government, and with each other, is crucial to their successful outcomes and impact. Nigeria’s Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, who lauded the USAID for their intervention in the sector, said that the E-WASH was timely because it fits perfectly into the National Wash Action Plan, which the Federal Executive Council recently approved. “The Action Plan is our road map towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. It is an action plan that we developed ourselves and we hope that very soon implementation will begin”, he said. Represented by the Director of Water Supply and Public Private Partnership, Ministry of Water Resources, Benson Ajisegiri, the Minister said within the Action Plan there are about five key areas which the E-WASH fits into perfectly. These include; governance in the water sector, sustainability, improved sanitation, funding and financing, monitoring and evaluation. The six states were competitively selected. The selection criteria included the willingness to reform, existing functionality of infrastructure, and potential for positive impact.  Innocent Odoh, Abuja 