The State Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Barr. Onyekachi Nwebonyi has debunked insinuations in some quarters that there was division and or problems within the activities and decisions taken by the State Executive Council, SEC of the party in view of the forthcoming general elections in the state. The Chairman who stated this while briefing newsmen in Abakaliki on some crucial issues that needed to be addressed in order to move the party forward explained that there was no group called G8 within the party as the party remains united and focused to defeat the opposition All Progressive Congress, APC, in the state. According to him, some of the persons trying to create disaffection within the party were those disqualified during the screening exercise of the party. “We don’t have any group or body like G8 in Ebonyi PDP. PDP is intact and ready to win the 2019 general election. How can you join the party within a month and think you can qualify to run for an elective position without getting a waiver. Some of them didn’t appear before the screening committee because they knew they were not qualified. The provisional screening certificate they got by deceiving our national party had been withdrawn. “Their disqualification was done in line with the party’s guidelines. There was nothing like extortion in the course of the screening
exercise. Every party man has his or her responsibility to the party at all levels. What we did was according to the decision of the State
Executive Committee, SEC of the party”. On the 2019 general election, the state party Chairman stated that the party has no reason to be threatened by the activities of the
opposition in the state adding that the developmental strides of the Governor David Umahi-led administration would campaign for the PDP in the 2019 general election. “There is no cause for alarm. We are not threatened by the APC. Ebonyians love PDP and the state is PDP. We have 100 percent chances
of winning the 2019 general election. Nigerians are tired of the APC”.  Jacob Ogodo Abakaliki 