Mashood Mustapha and Saliu Mustapha, both  governorship aspirants on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC), in Kwara State have described election conducted on Saturday as an abuse of the party’s constitution. The gubernatorial hopeful equally petitioned electoral committee over what they described as absurd and illegal disqualification, therefore, calling for cancellation of the election and conduct of a fresh primary election in the state. The duo, separately addressed journalists on Saturday night to clarify issues concerning their purported disqualification from the gubernatorial race by the leadership of APC while election was going on. According one of the aspirants, ” I, Mashood Mustapha is here at the NUJ Center to address the circumstances surrounding the All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship primary election held today in Kwara State ahead of the 2019 general election. “To start with, I, Mashood Mustapha is a bonafide/founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC). I joined the party in 2014 with 36 other House of Representatives members and ever since then, I have worked assiduously towards the growth and development of our noble party in Kwara State. “In 2015, I was appointed as the Kwara State campaign coordinator for Buhari/Osinbajo and I worked alongside other progressives to deliver Kwara state to the APC. I have always been an ardent supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration and that prompted me to take a position when some opportunists attempted to exhume our defunct nPDP platform to derail the president and his administration through the formation of an illegal and irresponsible Reformed APC. “It is on record that I went on national TV with like-minds including Abdullahi Adamu and Abdulmumin Jibrin to shoot down the mischievous contraption of the felons who have since found their way out of our party. “I will like to state clearly that the struggle of making APC stronger and formidable started from my ward-Alanamu, Ilorin West local government area in May 2018 where I stood firm to challenge impunity by the then party leadership and stakeholders. “I organized authentic Ward and local government congresses in Ilorin West before aligning with Honourable Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed and other progressives to organize a State Congress at Arca Santa Arena where Bashir Omolaja Bolarinwa emerged as the State Chairman. “I, Mashood Mustapha fondly called MM purchased the APC nomination form and followed all the screening processes of the party like other aspirants. Up till now, I am yet to receive any communication from APC National Working Committee about non-clearance for governorship race. “It is sad that the rumour of my disqualification was aired on a national radio this morning to edge me out despite the denial by APC Acting National Publicity Secretary in a phone conversation. “I know it is the hand work of my political detractors within and outside the party. We are also aware that this development may be in connection with the scheme by some elements trying to impose a candidate for their selfish interest. “I, Mashood Mustapha of Ilorin West LG suffered ill treatment from a party I have always remain committed to, attended a meeting with all other aspirants and state executive committee last night without anybody raising the issue of disqualification. “Therefore, I am here to state that the APC primary election conducted today is an abuse of the constitution of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “I hereby, call for cancellation of the election and conduct of a fresh primary election because the rumour of disqualification has caused confusion and apathy amongst our supporters across the 193 wards in Kwara State. In his submission, Saliu Mustapha, the second aspirant said he didn’t join APC, he was one of the members that formed APC, thus, he should be treated fairly, describing the act as a gross misconduct and a calculated attempt to disenfranchise him and his teeming supporters. “As one of the governorship aspirants of the ongoing primary today, what I heard on radio around 12 pm, in the middle of an election day, a party suddenly announced certain names that were cleared and those that are not cleared for the primary was the biggest shock for me. “My coming here this evening is just to let the world have insight of  what is happening here in kwara. For me, there has not been geneu case or communication to the effect of the disqualification. “I believe as a founding member of APC alcohol nd a loyal member of the part or that matter, I deserve more than this, I deserve the right to be informed of the decision. “After all the pains taken, period of campaign, and the process in which we all went through to obtain forms, screening exercise in Abuja, no official communication so ever, was issued or communicated to me, all I will hear is announcement on radio. “I immediately called, Mustapha Isowo, the party secretariat in the state, one of the leaders of the party;Lai Mohammed (Minister of Information and Culture); Bashir Bolarinw, the party Chairman; and Kabiru Yahaya, a member of electoral committee. They all denied the knowledge of such statement. Then, I called Olanrewaju, the GM of Harmony Fm that airs the announcement,  he insisted that it was the electoral committee that issued the press release to them. I tried to reach the committee but was not possible for me to connect with him and then called Abuja and there was no verified information for me. “I then decided to put up a petition to the Chairman and members of the electoral committee which I have served them and was acknowledged by the Secretary of the committee and hope due process would be taken to address the issue.  SIKIRAT SHEHU, Ilorin 