Members of organised labour powered by the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC) and United Labour Congress (ULC) on Tuesday continued their push for the implementation of N30,000 as a new national minimum wage in the public sector with a protest walk in Lagos. Hundreds of workers drawn from different sectors of the economy and backed by their civil society allies including Joint Action Forum (JAF) converged at Ojuelegba in Surulere, Lagos, as early as 7:30 am from where they began the long walk to the Gani Fawehinmi Park at Ojota where their leaders – Joe Ajaero, president of ULC,  Amechi Asugwuni, deputy president of the NLC, Abiodun Aremu, of JAF addressed the gathering under close watch by armed officers and men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The walk, however, brought untold hardship to motorists and commuters who had to endure unprecedented traffic congestion on the Lagos-Ikorodu for hours, trailing slowly behind the workers. Organised labour is demanding the signing into implementation of N30,000 being the sum they argued was agreed to by the 30-member tripartite national minimum wage committee set by the Federal Government in November 2017. The committee wrapped its negotiation and sitting in Abuja early this month. But Chris Ngige, minister of labour and employment is insisting the committee did not agree on any consensus figure as claimed by labour, stressing  that the federal and state government cannot pay N30,000. Ngige is insisting on N24,000, but labour say it cannot return to negotiation after it has concluded one. Addressing the crowd at Ojota, Asugwuni advised Nigerians to stockpile foods in their homes ahead of the nationwide strike which begins November 6. According to him, the struggle is to defend the people of this country and the walk day is to sensitise Nigerians “because once we commence the strike, there is no going back except government agree to our terms and conditions. The minimum wage is a legitimate right for Nigerian workers.” Speaking also, Ajaero, said that the N30,000 already upon was no longer negotiable. “We are on the road to tell the government that enough is enough. The November 6 will be the mother of all strikes in Nigeria. Posterity will judge us if we fail to rise up to defend Nigerian workers. There is no good healthcare and electricity tariff is far more than 18,000 minimum wage and the tariff continue to increase”, he said.  