The insurance market in East Africa is one that is still growing. In fact, looking at the numbers in terms of market participation on both sides affirms the claim. According to data and analysis from Asoko Insights, the market has few participating firms. In addition, the market penetration is still very low. Based on the latest United Nations estimates, Ethiopia has a current population of 108 million people. This makes it the largest country by population on the Eastern side of Africa. In fact, the country’s population is equivalent to 1.41% of the total world population. As a result, the country has a huge potential in terms of the insurance industry. Effective monopoly However, analysis and insights from Asoko Insights imply a different picture. Compared to neighboring Kenya, Ethiopia’s insurance industry is grossly underperforming. Basically, the industry has two major sub sectors which include life and non-life insurance. In terms of total assets, non-life insurance tops the list with a little under $500 million. On the other hand, life insurance has a total asset worth of just a little over $64 million. This is according to data as at the end of 2016 financial year. Market analysts observe that the underperformance of the sector is largely on the back of market monopoly. According to an Asoko Insights analyst, the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation (EIC) is the largest insurance broker in the market. For this reason, the government of Ethiopia is the largest player in the insurance market. In fact, the monopoly by the EIC is one of the reasons why the industry is not performing well. Additionally, foreign players do not have access to that market. This keeps the Ethiopian insurance market limited to the option of a few local companies and the EIC. As a result, there is no proper incentive to offer better services on the supply side. A non-diversified market The monopoly, ban on foreign companies and a series of other enablers stifle the market’s potential. According to an Asoko Insight’s analyst: “Latent growth potential in life insurance space remains unexploited. As of 2016, life insurance premiums constituted just 5% of total industry premiums…” This is a very small number compared to neighboring Kenya. In fact, the analyst observes that gross volume of Ghana’s life insurance defeats Ethiopia’s. This is despite the fact that Ethiopia has four times the population of Ghana. A step behind peers Also, analysts cite poor living standards and low internet penetration are major hindrances to the growth of the industry. As a result, the market is not able to extend outside the country’s major towns. Furthermore, Ethiopia is a very traditional society. Many people still rely on societal organizations for all round support in terms of emergency. This effectively cuts out the need for insurance premiums from large firms far off. However, there seems to be positive growth in the industry. This is especially as a result of compulsory motor insurance. A growing middle class implies a growth in the number of car owner. Subsequently, this leads to higher demand for insurance packages. 