The police on Friday teargassed Senate President Bukola Saraki; National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Uche Secondus; Sokoto State governor, Aminu Tambuwal and other PDP leaders who besieged Force Headquarters, Abuja to protest against the outcome of the just concluded Osun State governorship election. The protesters who earlier marched from the PDP presidential campaign headquarters in Maitama to the INEC office, however met stiff resistance when they protested to the Force Headquarters. They described the declaration of Gboyega Oyetola as a call to civil unrest, even as they criticised the conduct of security agents at the just concluded polls. Adorned in white T-shirts, they carried placards with various inscriptions such as: ‘Declare Adeleke winner of the Osun State governorship elections’, ‘ INEC Chairman must resign’, ‘Police an arm of APC’,  ‘INEC, enough is enough’ among others. Other prominent PDP members also teargassed include Governor of Ekiti State, Ayo Fayose; Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State, Governor Darius Ishaku (Taraba); immediate past governor of Kano State and presidential aspirant, Rabiu Kwankwanso; former governor of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido; Senator Dino Melaye among others. At the entrance of the Force Headquarters, the protesters faced stiff resistance after the police mounted barricade to prevent them from gaining entrance to its headquarters. Trouble started after Melaye who was at the forefront of the protests, tried to force his way but was resisted by policemen who fired several gunshots and teargas to disperse the crowd. The other PDP leaders who were in a truck, however, used handkerchiefs to cover their faces to prevent suffocation, while those on foot scampered for safety. Earlier, addressing the crowd at INEC headquarters, Secondus asked the INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, and the Commission’s National Commissioner in charge of Operations, Amina Zaraki, to resign. “The country is sleeping on a keg of gun powder, you know it. If you feel that Nigerians are not aware of the activities of INEC and police, you are deceiving yourselves. You are pushing Nigerians to the wall and when you push them to the wall there would be resistant. We hope we will not get there, but this will serve as a notice. “Therefore we demand that INEC Chairman should resign, Amina Zakariyau should resign. She is the manipulator of all elections. Let me address Mr President, Muhammad Buhari, you cannot continue to give instructions to security agents to carry out out your agenda, instead of protecting Nigerians. “The hunger in the land is too much, the corruption in the country is too much. You are not fighting corruption, you are fighting your perceived enemies, you are fighting the masses. Nigerians have left you. You cannot change the will of the people by force, take note and stop directing the security agencies and INEC to rig elections. You must come out clean. What we expect from you is to conduct a free and fair election”. Responding, INEC Commissioner in charge of Legal Matters, May Agbamuche-Mbu, expressed the commission’s determination to deliver free, credible and fair general elections in 2019. “I want to thank you, and inform you all that Professor Mahmud Yakubu would have received you all. The commission takes this demonstration very seriously. We are happy that the protest is peaceful and carried out in civilized manner. “INEC is up to this job, we are all here in INEC as professionals and not politicians. We are going to do our best come 2019.I must say we are a team and decisions are made by the commission and not by any individual. All your comments have been noted and it will be passed to the chairman and the entire commission,” she said.  OWEDE AGBAJILEKE, Abuja 