Investors look uninterested to stake their funds in the development and upgrade of the Okokomaiko-Badagry Expressway, sections of which have long collapsed resulting in daily gridlock and heavy economic losses to commuters and businesses along the axis.
The Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) recently described the international route as ‘death trap’ and called for an urgent action to save lives and property going through it.
The Lagos State government confirmed on Wednesday it was yet to secure investors’ buy-in to continue the expansion of the road via a Public Private Partnership (PPP) arrangement in spite of several trips overseas and overtures to both local and international investors.
Ade Akinsanya, the Lagos State commissioner for works and infrastructure in a statement seen by BusinessDay, said: “Lagos State government has maintained the road regularly in the last three and a half years through rehabilitation, but discussions with investors willing to upgrade the road under the Private -Public-Partnership (PPP) deal is still going on at both the state and federal levels.”
Akinsanya further confirmed that discussions on the road topped the agenda “between Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and Chinese investors during President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent trip to China.”
Checks by BusinessDay showed that the last couple of months, commuters and motorists have had to spend hours on the international road which links Nigeria with other West African countries like Benin, Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire among others.
The state government first awarded contract for the expansion of the expressway from four to ten lanes, in 2009 to Julius Berger Plc, starting from the Eric Moore end, near Iganmu (Lot 1). It subsequently awarded the Lot 2, Mile 2-Okokomaiko to CCECC, a Chinese engineering and construction company. But ten years after the work begun, there seems to be no end in sight.
The government had put up the last phase of the road (Okokomaiko-Badagry) for uptake by private investors who will recoup its investment by tolling the road.
Residents, commuters and motorists took the streets on Tuesday to protest the deplorable condition of the road. But in a statement issued by the state government on Wednesday the state said: “Although the Federal Government manages the inter-national route, Lagos State government promised to keep its maintenance workers and equipment on the road until commuters and other users are relieved of the stress caused by the bad portions”.
“So far, the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) has carried out palliative works at Iyana Era, Ijanikin, Oko-afo, Magbon, Ibereko, Araromi, Iyana Isashi and Agbara”, Akinsanya said, adding that the government has mobilised other contractors to ensure full coverage of the assignment.
He said in July, this year, Governor Ambode responded to the complaints of residents over challenge posed to traffic by directing that the completed segment of the road with the BRT Corridor from Eric Moore to Trade Fair be opened up to ease traffic.
To further alleviate the suffering of the motoring public in the Badagry division, the commissioner said the present administration has completed the construction of Aradagun-Iworo-Ajido road and Ajara- Agelaso- Poka/ Erekiti with bridge.
He said the government was also building the Aradagun-Imeke-Ajido-Epeme road, Samuel –Ekundayo/Toga and will soon embark on the construction of Abule Ado road.
Akinsanya assured that there would be adequate security on the road to ensure smooth traffic and protect residents from danger.  JOSHUA BASSEY 