A new report by the UK Department for International Development (DFID) shows full equity of learning in Bridge International Academies (Bridge) classrooms, regardless of a child’s socioeconomic background. The new report, titled ‘Learning in Lagos’ indicates that factors such as parental income, education, and language at home had no effect on Bridge pupils’ academic performance in Lagos. The study confirms that Bridge pupils in Lagos are demonstrating higher attainment than their peers in other low fee schools or public schools. The report says, “In literacy, students at Bridge schools have better performance than pupils at other private schools (by 0.35 standard deviations) and public schools (by 1.38 standard deviations)”. Steve Cantrell in charge of Measurement and Evaluation at Bridge International Academies while speaking during the Launch of the report in Lagos last week said, “There is no learning gap at Bridge schools. This study validates our methods, which ensure that all teachers have high expectations for every pupil, irrespective of their families income, prior educational attainment, or which language they speak at home.” Cantrell observes that, Bridge schools are places of equal opportunity and equal learning benefits for all types of children, and especially for the poor. Overall, this independent report shows that Bridge is helping children from poor families in Lagos to learn, improving access to quality education, and enabling the providing the best overall learning attainment in the local communities we serve. According to him, “We can now say with total confidence that Bridge makes a significant and important overall contribution to education opportunities in Lagos”. The DFID findings contradict decades of global education research that asserts family background matters more than the school a child attends, in relation to levels of learning. The report states “Students from better socio-economic backgrounds have higher learning achievement in private schools, but not at Bridge schools”. Femi Adegoke, from Oxford Policy Management in his presentation of the findings from the report said: “This is the first time the consulting body have measured school management in Nigeria. According to him, “We are able to support a claim that all those working in organisations have long held true: good management matters. In Lagos public schools and Bridge schools, we find a strong correlation with better learning outcomes. As a next step, we would recommend more programmes focused on better management, so that more schools and pupils in Lagos can benefit.” The report marks an important milestone in the debate around Bridge’s role in helping poor families access quality education.  The UK Government now fully recognises that “the private sector, as well as the public sector, contributes to the education of Lagosian children and that development partners need to work with the private sector as well as the public sector to improve education outcomes for children in Lagos. “All hands must be on deck to help the approximately 10 million Nigerian children not in school and many who are in school are not learning the basics”. Ronke Soyombo, director general, office of the education quality assurance, Lagos State while speaking at the event commended the leadership of Bridge International academies for its innovative solutions towards driving increased national learning gains and effective best practices in education. Soyombo tasked both the public and private sector to embrace attitudinal change towards the educational system with the goals of making education not only a source of value adding medium but to make it one of the leading sectors in Nigeria. Olu Babalola, managing director, Bridge Nigeria, opined that Bridge pupils excel because of the training and support teachers receive at Bridge. “Bridge teachers pay attention to struggling kids and not just kids and those doing well. I think in other schools, the tendency is for the smart kids to dominate in class because they are more likely to jump to answer a question. I believe that our cold-calling methods, the small group sessions, the check and respond methods and everything we coach the teachers to do ensures no child is left behind.” DFID recognises that 69 percent of children attending low cost schools are living below the poverty line and that Bridge makes an important contribution to the overall provision of quality schools in an area where 75,000 children are out of school. The report also confirms that the vast majority of those in low cost community schools are poor. “69 percent of those attending low-cost private schools can be classified as poor.” The report highlights the quality of Bridge teachers, saying, “Teachers in Bridge schools report higher motivation than teachers in other schools, and Bridge schools are better managed than other schools.” Teachers in Bridge schools empower their pupils and build strong supportive bonds. The report found that Bridge pupils were less likely to “hit, pinch, or slap” a child during a lesson (5 percent) than in private or public schools (both 31 percent).  KELECHI EWUZIE 