Nigerians have taken to the roads of Abuja to protest the death of Ochanya Elizabeth Ogbaje, a 13 years old girl allegedly raped by a father and son in Gboko, Benue State. While many have taken to social media to demand justice, other protesters stormed various places in the nation’s capital, Abuja, to demand for justice over the alleged rape and death of Ochanya. The protest, tagged #JusticeForOchanya, saw protesters demonstrating at Unity Fountain, Ministry of Justice, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), among other places in Abuja asking the relevant authorities to follow due process to make sure that Ochanya gets justice and those who perpetrated the act are brought to book. The protesters, clad in black t-shirts with the inscription, “I am Ochanya”, consisted of human rights activists, lawyers, civil society organisations and students. A statement by the Old Girls’ Association of the Federal Government Girls’ College, Gboko, where Ochanya was a student, revealed that the rape was both vaginal and anal. The statement reads in part, “From age eight till her final collapse at age 13, Ochanya had been serially abused in both nether regions by her aunt’s husband and son; namely Andrew Ogbuja and Victor Ogbuja, respectively.” The protesters were seen carrying placards with inscriptions like: “Pres Buhari, IG of Police, Benue State Govt, BenPoly, Uniagric, Bring Ochanya’s killers to book now”; “Justice for Ochanya, no to rape, no to domestic violence. Children should be cherished, not abused”; “Sack the lecturer now”; “Say No To Rape”; “We Demand Justice for Ochanya” among others. Addressing the protesters, the Coordinator for #Justice4Ochanya, Great Felix, said: “We want the Minister of Justice to expedite action and ensure that justice is delivered. This is because an injustice to one is an injustice to all.” Responding to the protesters, Emmanuel Omonoho, director of litigation, who spoke on behalf of the ministry, as the Minister was said to be out on an assignment assured the protesters that the ministry will swing into action as soon as the police conclude their investigations. “Minister of justice is on assignment and is not in the office now. I want to assure you of one thing if this incident took place in any state, let it be investigated and let the report of the investigation be made to the commissioner of police of the state. I assure you on behalf of attorney-general that once the report gets to the ministry of justice the matter must be prosecuted to the logical conclusion.” Omonoho said. One of the conveyors of the protest, Bar. Ché Oyinatumba, said that it was “painful, most painful that she was [allegedly] raped by her uncle, who is a lecturer!” adding that “we want to make sure that no technicalities allow him to escape. We want others to know that.” Ochanya was said to have developed and died of complications resulting from Vesicovaginal Fistula (VVF), which caused her to continuously drip urine due to severe damage to her bladder. Meanwhile, Andrew who has been charged to court pleaded with the court to “temper justice with mercy,” and prayed the court to grant him bail and allow him to return home to settle the matter amicably with parties concerned, considering his status. The judge, Justice S. D. Kwen, however, rejected the plea, demanding that he remain in prison custody. Andrew Ogboja, Head of Department, Catering and Hotel Management at the Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, Benue State, and his son, Victor Inalegwu Ogboja, a final year student of Animal Production at the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi, are the accused.  JOSEPH MAURICE OGU 