Education experts have raised concerns that poor political will in government, corruption, poverty amongst others are major threat to equitable access to quality education in Nigeria and a matter of urgent importance. According to Dayo Ogundimu, Education and development consultant, “Access to education by millions of Nigeria remains hindered diet lack of political will, poor planning and infrastructure, corruption, irregular payment of teachers salaries “, Ogundimu added. He cited the universal declaration of human rights which stipulates that every child should have access to education and has not been adhered to in the country. “The declaration does not only prescribe equitable access but also quality education,” he said, speaking at the 2-day media dialogue titled “promotion of equity in education for children” organised by the child rights information Bureau(CRIB) of the federal ministry of information and culture in collaboration with the United Nations Children’s fund (UNICEF) in kano state. Speaking further, Ogundimu said that everyone needs to be involved in ensuring sustainability in the education sector as the consequences of poor and inequitable access to education are gradually unfolding in all aspects of the Nigeria society today. Chikwendu Ogbonnaya, coordinator, public advocacy initiative, said that there is need for effective public policy that promotes equitable access to education as it further enhance rational decision making process. He said “There is need for increased inclusive growth in Nigeria in order to provide equality of opportunity and empowering people through education and skill deelopment”. He regrettted that Nigeria lacks the committed institutions that prioritise education hence access to quality education remains challenged in Nigeria. Azuka Menkiti, UNICEF education specialist, stressed that poor implementation of education policy and laws as well as low budgetary allocation, release and utilization which affect school supplies have over the years hindered effectiveness and efficiency of education in Nigeria. She also explained that threat to security has contributed significantly to the low demand for and access to education especially for the girl child. She said “The recent security threat to schooling in the north east as well as other parts of Nigeria has contributed significantly to low demand for and access to education especially for girls”. Menkiti said that the gaps identified in the Nigeria education system is centered mainly around gender, status (rich/poor) and residence, adding that education indicators for the Northern Nigeria are different from those in the south. “Gender is a very critical factor in considering the educational and societal gaps in Nigeria. Women often are denied opportunities and are the main subjects of inequity as many perceive that the women often have little or nothing to offer to the society” she added.  Cynthia Egboboh, Abuja 