Babatunde Fashola, minister for Power, Works and Housing will be the guest speaker at the Monthly Breakfast meeting of the Nigeria South Africa Chamber of commerce, which this month is being sponsored by Phillips Consulting. The Minister will share his views on “The true situation of Electric Power today and prospects for the future”. The topic was selected because of the incessant national cry for the resolution of the electric power situation in the country and a need for clarity into the future, the organisers say. The event is being sponsored by Phillips Consulting, an indigenous management consulting firm in the country, led by Foluso Phillips. The company will also be introducing to the public for the first time its new managing director, Robert Taiwo, who has been overseeing the affairs of the firm since the beginning of the year. Robert, as part of the transformation initiative taking place at Phillips Consulting, will present the firm’s new brand identity and speak briefly about the firm’s revised strategy for the future under his active leadership. Whilst Phillips, the current Chairman of the Nigeria South Africa Chamber of Commerce and also one time Chairman of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, has stepped down from the operational activities of the firm, he will continue to see to the internal development of the firm’s Consultants and focus on executive capacity building and mentoring. “We are quite excited at this new phase in the life of our 26 year old firm. Its personally refreshing for me, to see my vision of building a sustainable institution to outlive us all, becoming a reality. With Rob at the helm of affairs and this redefinition of the firm as personified by a simple but refreshed brand image, I feel that a new generation is being truly born at Phillips Consulting. I believe there are exciting times ahead for us and our innumerable clients,” Phillips, also a public speaker said. The invitation only gathering is scheduled to take place at the Eko Hotel on Thursday 18 October at an early breakfast meeting scheduled for 7:30 to 9:00 am. The Chamber will also hold its Annual General Meeting immediately after this Breakfast meeting.  Isaac Anyaogu 