Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti state on Thursday bade people of the state farewell, beating his chest that he had done his best for the state as executive governor of the state in the last four years of his administration. Speaking at the state of the state press conference in Ado Ekiti, Governor Fayose said his administration had contributed to the social and infrastructural development of the state without committing Ekiti to any debt, either by way of bond or bank loans since he took over in 2014. He said, “Contrary to what they are saying that I have committed Ekiti to a huge debt, I didn’t commit Ekiti with a dime. Whatever we do in government, history will forever remain after us”. He urged Fayemi to deploy the N327 million kept in bank by his administration to complete the new Oja Oba market for the use of Ekiti traders. The governor added that he decided to abandon the civic centre project started by Fayemi and constructed a new market because it was not a priority to the people of the state. He added that the newly built Ministry of Finance shall be named after former Minister of National Planning, Chief Ayo Ogunlade to appreciate his contributions to the state . The governor said he decided not to name any project after himself on thnew governor’s office, the roads , the Oja Oba market , the Funmilayo Olayinka e basis of his belief that such was morally wrong. “The flyover , the Women development centre and other projects will speak for me even if I refuse to name projects after myself”. Thee governor added that he had promised to appear at the office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission(EFCC) on October 16, to deny the EFCC the opportunity of harassing him if he reneged on his promise to appear before it next Tuesday He said, “Again, I have to be in EFCC office in Abuja on Tuesday. But let me say clearly that I am ready to appear before any Panel set up by incoming government to probe my administration”, he said. Fayose said he won’t dabble into the crisis rocking the assembly culminating in the removal of the Speaker, Hon Kola Oluwawole and his deputy, Sina Animasaun on Thursday. Three All Progressives Congress(APC) and 11 members of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) on Thursday removed the principal officers and installed an APC lawmaker, Adeniran Alagbada, as the new Speaker. Fayose said: ” I won’t dabble into what is happening in the assembly. Whether they elect Oluwawole or Alagbada, such person must believe that he was elected to serve Ekiti people. ” I enjoin them to cooperate with Fayemi to move Ekiti forward. I don’t want to hear of any impeachment against Fayemi, if truly we are here to serve”, he advised.  RAPHAEL ADEYANJU, Ado-Ekiti 