At least 7, 000 delegates are to participate in the Special National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress, APC holding Saturday at the Eagle Square. The Convention is to among others, affirm the sole candidature of President Muhammadu Buhari,  earlier elected through direct primaries last weekend. Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State, Vice Chairman of the Convention Planning Committee, announced this while briefing journalists in Abuja on the preparations for the Convention. Shettima who represented the Chairman of the Convention Planning Committee, Governor Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, said in states where there were parallel congresses, only delegates from the State Executives approved by the National Working Committee NWC would be allowed to participate in the exercise. He announced that, “7,000 delegates are expected and in order to ensure that those from far-flung states make it in time for the exercise, we decided to schedule it for 2pm. Aside the statutory delegates, there would be three delegates drawn from each local government and area councils of the federation”. Shettima assured that, “my fellow Nigerians and APC members, as we prepare for the Presidential convention tomorrow, to confirm the nomination of our Presidential candidate, His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari, let me assure you that the nomination and ratification of his candidacy is a commitment to steady, progressive and positive change”. Meanwhile, delegates from Edo, Imo, Anambra and Zamfara states will not participate in the convention to confirm Buhari nomination as primaries are rescheduled in their states on Saturday. Recall that, the National Working Committee, NWC of APC had severally postponed the primaries in those states and rescheduled them for Saturday and Sunday. Acting National Publicity Secretary of the APC, Yekini Nabena who spoke to journalists in Abuja on Friday noted that, it was important to ensure that primaries are are completed in those states to meet the deadline given by the Independent National Electoral Commission for the conduct of party primaries, adding that, the exercise was however underway in Adamawa state. Nabena said, “in Edo state, the Senate, House of Representatives and State Assembly primaries will take place tomorrow, Saturday until Sunday, same for Imo, Anambra and Zamfara. The exercise is already ongoing in Adamawa”, he said. He said delegates from these states would not be disenfranchised from taking part in the national convention, hence what is more important is to ensure that the INEC deadline is met so that the party could field candidates in those states. Also, APC NWC has ratified the reports of the various Electoral Committees and adopted 24 governorship candidates of the party for the forthcoming 2019 general elections. According to report made available to journalists, Abdullahi Ganduje is the governorship candidate for Kano State, Mohammed Abubakar is Bauchi candidate, Simon Lalung, Plateau, Nasir elRufai, Kaduna, Mohammed Badaru, Jigawa,  Ahmed Aliyu, Sokoto, Atiku Bagudu, Kebbi, Aminu Masari, Katsina,   Abubakar Bello, Niger, Babagana Umara-zulum, Borno and Mai Mala Buni, Yobe. Others are, Abubakar Sule, Nasarawa, Emmanuel Jime, Benue, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos, Tony Cole, Rivers, Uche Ogah Abia, Nsima Ekere, Akwa Ibom, Adebayo Adelabu, Oyo State,  Dapo Abiodun, Ogun, Great Ogboru, Delta, Owan Enoh, Cross River, Inuwa Yahaya, Gombe, Sunny Ogboji, Ebonyi and Sani Danladi, Taraba. 