Yakubu Dogara, Speaker of the House of Representatives on Thursday alleged that the ongoing plans to implement the national transport master plan including the dredging of Nigeria’s inland waterways were frustrated by some powerful interests. Dogara who stated this during an interactive session with Adeleke Mamora, Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), however failed to mention the members of the cartel. The Speaker, who narrated his ordeal while championing the issue of implementation of the national transport master plan over the past three years, disclosed that at different times and at the highest levels and different people, his efforts hit a brick wall. Dogara who acknowledged former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s ingenuity towards actualization of the project, explained that the Chinese had handed down a negative verdict on the project saying it was not feasible and useless. “I was part of the development of the national transportation master plan, I don’t know what has happened to that, how I wish we implemented that plan, by now we would have gone very far because the national transportation master plan vision is a seamless integration of a multi modal transportation into one hub. “And I think at that time Baro in Niger State had been identified as the center for the hub, it is serviced by a railway that is connected to Minna and all you need to do is to construct a road and airport that will ensure connectivity and you will have access to the Atlantic Ocean through the River Niger, so everything was supposed to be put together in one place. “I am aware that some people in the sector are of the opinion that we do not need the inland waterways transportation in this country. I have had discussions with some of them, like I said I have been advocate of this for long, and they said that the Chinese said it is useless, even if we develop it but that’s the irony. “If you look at other countries who do not even have this potential for inland waterways transportation, they have even done man-made inland waterways and even lakes, they have created artificial ones.
While in this country, having been blessed with this wonderful resources by Mother Nature, by God we tend to look the other way and believe they will not serve any useful purpose. “There are some people within the sector who do not want some of these initiatives to see the light of day. But because I’ve converted myself so if they are fighting against you, they are fighting against me, and it would be very difficult for them to succeed because of the good will that propels us,” the Speaker further assured the NIWA delegation. He also highlighted some of the values that can be generated from inland waterways transportation saying, “imagine the millions of metric tonnes of goods that would be lifted off our highways and put on the berth of ships that would ply these inland waterways. That would mean our roads can last 50 years as it is in other climes. That would also translate into safety on our highways as well.” The Speaker said it was in realization of the importance of the sector that the House passed the NIWA amendment Bill which repealed moribund laws governing the agency’s activities to enable it achieve its mandate which is now awaiting concurrence by the Senate. Speaking earlier, Senator Mamora commended the Speaker for how he has been able to manage the House of Representatives and said he was in the Speaker’s office to solicit his support and that of the House of Representatives because the legislature provides the ways and means for good governance and the passage of the NIWA amendment bill.  KEHINDE AKINTOLA, Abuja 