History was made on the 6th of September 2018 when Kanyeyachukwu Tagbo-Okeke, a young gifted Nigerian child who is also known as the “Young Picasso” was conferred with the prestigious “Flame of Peace” award in Vienna, Austria for his contribution to promoting peace with art, to the amazement of the arts and diplomatic community in Austria and the world. This award has been described by art critics as spectacular and phenomenal and it is the first time a Nigerian and someone so young would be awarded.  At the tender age of eight, Kanyeyachukwu is the youngest ever recipient of the award and the conferment speaks a lot more for Kanye, being a child who overcame the impediments of autism and has shown a high level of creativity.  The Flame of Peace is an award granted by the Austrian non-profit organization, Association for the Promotion of World Peace, it was instituted in 2007 and has been given to many prominent individuals such as the President of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh; Ambassador of Jordan to Austria, Hussam Al Husseini; The President of Kosovo, Atifete Jahjaga; the Chairman of the Carnegie foundation, the President of the Prague Parliament in Chezk Republic, and a host of others. Kanyeyachukwu who is a native of Anambra State, Nigeria has been hailed as an art genius by fellow artistes and museum curators from around the globe and this has seen the young artist invited to exhibitions across Europe. The journey of this young dynamo has been described by his parents, Tagbo and Sylvia Okeke, as simply a miracle. Beginning with what they initially regarded as mere “scribbling on paper”, his keen interest in arts led to his enrollment in an arts tutoring class where his skill at abstract creativity was further honed and what began as a childhood interest suddenly reached the world in 2017 when young Kanye’s works found its way to the Nigerian Ambassador to Austria; an arts enthusiast who was visiting the embassy saw one of his paintings and, after requiring who the artiste was, immediately alerted other art enthusiasts and collectors.  Kanye’s creative manifestation in arts also got to the ears of the art community and art connoisseurs in Europe including Suleiman Al-Herbish, the  Director General of the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID), an intergovernmental development finance institution established by the Member States of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), whose yearly art exhibition showcases artists from around the world whose works are dedicated towards peaceful coexistence around the world. Prestigious arts museums like the prestigious Moya Museum of Young Art, Vienna Austria and curators of art and members of the Austrian monarchy were also hinted about the art work of Kanye and, after careful scrutiny, the board of the museum concluded that his works were exceptional and has to be amongst those to be on display at their art exhibition.  After reviews of his works, Kanye was nominated for the prestigious “Flame of Peace” award for his contributions on fostering world Peace with art, which was conferred on him by the Arch Duchess of Austria, Lothringen. This prestigious award caused so much excitement in The Austrian arts community and lead to invitations to numerous other exhibitions including that of Solomon Okpurukhre, a Nigerian arts curator also based in Vienna. At the Flame of Peace Awards, Kanye’s painting was selected from over seventy artists invited globally to showcase their works at the United Nations Young Artists for Peace exhibition to the amazement of art critics and lovers. Beyond any doubt, it is clear that there’s more to come from Kanye. As the first Nigerian and African child to clinch the much coveted award, a child who has obviously surmounted the challenges of autism to be the first child below the age of ten to exhibit and be conferred with such an international award, Kanyechukwu has cemented his name and that of Nigeria in the global artistes hall of fame as well as earning him the title of “the Young Picasso” in Europe.  Jumoke Akiyode-Lawanson 