The Centre for Anti-corruption and Open Leadership, (CACOL) has urged newly sworn in Governor of Ekiti State, Kayode Fayemi, to publicly declare his assets and those of his deputy just like he did during his first term in office. In a statement to the media Thursday and signed by the anti-graft organization’s Coordinator of Media and Publications, Adegboyega Otunuga, on behalf of the Executive Chairman, Debo Adeniran, said that it was imperative that the Governor declare his asset to give his administration credibility, while would further serve as a pointer to other public office holders. The statement further commended the Governor, for moving fast to declare education free in the state-owned primary up to junior secondary school, stressing that such move would further consolidate the success recorded by the state in the education sector in recent time. “Governor Kayode Fayemi, after his swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday, October 17, 2018, immediately sprang into action by announcing a ‘free education programme’ for all pupils in the state-owned primary schools up to junior secondary school. “This is a laudable step, considering the fact that education is one cardinal area the people of the state has consistently prided itself in, aside from the global avowal of the benefits accruable to any government, with an educated populace. “However, for this and many other economic programmes he as the Governor, may want to implement to make his second coming memorable and noteworthy, he, like Caesar’s wife must come to equity with clean hands by declaring all his assets and those of his deputy, publicly. “We would recollect that since he left the saddle in Ekiti state, between 2010 and 2014, he had gone ahead to serve as the Federal Minister of Solid Minerals Development under the Muhammadu Buhari’s government. “Suffice it to mention that we are not asking him to do anything novel as he actually declared his assets in his first coming as the Executive Governor of the state, even though he could not declare his assets when he was leaving as we could have preferred. “Aside from his pedigree that such declaration tends to preserve, it would serve as a baseline to hold other office holders by and this could be better appreciated if we considered his antecedents as a prominent Rights Crusader and Civil Society advocate. “Our position remains that the course of leadership deficit that has afflicted the nation for so long and our resolve to roll it back, would be better served if he could start on this promising note of accountability”.  Iniobong Iwok 